James Potter and the
Hall of Elders' Crossing

G. Norman Lippert

Based upon the characters and worlds of J. K. Rowling

Then I have an ivory chair high to sit upon,
Almost like my father's chair, which is an ivory throne;
There I sit uplift and upright, there I sit alone.
- Christina Rossetti

CONTENTS
Prologue
1. Shadow of Legends
2. Arrival of the Alma Alerons
3. The Ghost and the Intruder
4. The Progressive Element
5. The Book of Austramaddux
6. Harry's Midnight Meeting
7. Broken Loyalties
8. The Grotto Keep
9. The Debate Betrayal
10. Holiday at Grimmauld Place
11. The Three Relics
12. Visum-Ineptio
13. Revelation of the Robe
14. The Hall of the Elders' Crossing
15. The Muggle Spy

16. Disaster of the Merlin Staff
17. Night of the Returning
18. The Tower Assembly
19. Secrets Unveiled
20. Tale of the Traitor
21. The Gift of the Green Box

Prologue
Mr. Grey peeked around the corner and surveyed the corridor. It
stretched off into dim infinity, dotted with floating globes of silvery light.
Mr. Grey had been told that the globes were swampfire, encased in a
timeloop charm so they were inextinguishable. He'd never even heard of
swampfire, much less a timeloop charm, but then again, Mr. Grey had never
been in a place quite like the Hall of Mysteries. He shuddered.
"I don't see anybody," he whispered to the two figures behind him. "No
gates or locks, neither. Do you think maybe they're using invisible barriers
or something?"
"Nar," a gravely voice answered. "We was told exactly where the
beacons were placed, wasn't we? This section's clean. Sentry's all we have
to worry about. If you don' see him, then move in."
Mr. Grey shuffled his feet. "I know what we was told, but it don't feel
right, Bistle. I has a sense about these things. Me mam always said so."
"Don't call me Bistle, yeh sodding half-wit," said the gravely voice,
which belonged to a particularly grizzly goblin in black shirt and trousers.
"I'm Mr. Saffron when we're on the job. And blast yehr sixth sense. Yeh're
just a great coward whenever yeh get in an unfamiliar place. The sooner we
get on, the sooner it'll be over and we'll be back to the shack to celebrate."
The third figure, a tall, old man with a pointed, white goatee, stepped
past Mr. Saffron and walked casually down the corridor, scanning the doors.
"See how Mr. Pink does it?" Mr. Saffron said, following closely and
glancing around. "Knows to trust his information, he does. No sentry, no
problems. Right, Mr. Pink?"

Mr. Grey trailed behind Mr. Saffron, frowning massively and watching
the mysterious doors. There were hundreds--maybe thousands--of them
along the endless corridor. None had names or markings of any kind. In the
lead, Mr. Pink could be heard counting softly under his breath.
"Why do I have to be Mr. Grey?" Mr. Grey said petulantly. "Nobody
likes grey. It's hardly even a color at all."
The goblin ignored him. After several minutes, Mr. Pink stopped
walking. Mr. Saffron and Mr. Grey halted behind him, looking around the
corridor with furrowed brows.
"Can't be the place, Mr. Pink," the goblin said. "There's no doors in
this section at all. Are yeh sure yeh counted aright?"
"I counted right," Mr. Pink said. He glanced down at the floor, and
then scuffed at a section of the marble tile with his toe. There was a chip in
the corner of one of the tiles. Mr. Pink grunted and knelt down. He probed
the broken corner with a finger. He nodded to himself, then hooked his
finger into the hole and gave a tug. A rectangular section of the tile floor
popped upwards, pulled open by Mr. Pink's tugging finger. He heaved and
the rectangular chunk of floor slid upwards like a long, vertical drawer,
rising with a grating rumble until it touched the ceiling. It shuddered into
place. It was as wide and tall as a door, but only a few inches thick. Mr.
Grey peered around it and could see the endless corridor of the Hall of
Mysteries stretching away behind it.
"How'd yeh know that was there?" Mr. Saffron demanded, slitting his
eye up at Mr. Pink.
"She told me," Mr. Pink responded, shrugging.
"She did, did she? Anything else you might know that you hain't told
us about, yet?"
"Just enough to get us there," Mr. Pink replied. "You're the lock

breaker, Mr. Grey is the heavy hand, and I'm the mapper. We all know what
we need to know, and nothing else."
"Yar, yar, I remember," the goblin grumbled. "Let me get on with it,
then, won't yeh?"
Mr. Pink stood aside as Mr. Saffron moved closer to the slab of
mysterious stone. He studied it carefully, squinting and muttering. He laid
one of his huge ears against it and tapped here and there. Finally, he reached
into a pocket of his black shirt and produced a complicated device made of
dozens of brass loops. He unfolded one and peered through it at the stone
slab.
"Hardly worth the effort, really," he muttered. "It's a homunculus lock.
Only opens when a predefined set of factors is present. Could be it only
opens when a redheaded lass sings the national anthem of Atlantis at three
o'clock on a Thursday. Or when the light of the setting sun is reflected from
a cracked mirror onto a goat's eye. Or when Mr. Grey hawks a bogey onto a
purple newt. I've seen some good homunculus factors in my time, yar."
"Is this a good one, then?" Mr. Grey asked rather hopefully.
The goblin grinned, showing lots of tiny, pointed teeth. "S'like Mr.
Pink says, isn't it? We all knows what we need to get the job done." He
reached into another pocket and produced a tiny glass vial filled with red
powder. Carefully, the goblin uncorked the vial and upended the contents
onto the floor before the stone slab. The powder swirled and eddied as it
fell, so that as it hit the ground, it formed an unnaturally regular pattern. Mr.
Grey peered down and saw that it had formed the shape of a skeletal hand
with one finger pointing toward the slab.
Mr. Saffron produced a tiny brass tool and muttered, "Acculumos." A
narrow beam of greenish light glowed from the end of the tool. The goblin
squatted and carefully laid the tool across the bony hand so that the light
pointed at the exact angle of the pointing, skeletal finger.

Mr. Grey gasped and took a step backwards. Seen in the carefully
arranged light of Mr. Saffron's tool, the rough stone surface of the slab was
no longer random. The play of light and shadow revealed an ornate
engraving of a grinning skeleton surrounded by dancing, impish shapes.
The skeleton's right hand was outstretched, forming something like a door
handle. The left hand was missing, and Mr. Pink shuddered again, realizing
it was the shape formed in red powder on the floor.
"It's a danse macabre," Mr. Saffron said, studying the engraving. "A
dance of death. Revealed with powdered dragon's blood and cavernlight.
Yar, it's a good one, Grey."
"Is it unlocked, then?" Mr. Pink asked briskly.
"Never was locked," the goblin replied. "We just had to know where to
grasp. Feel free to do the honors, Mr. Pink."
The tall, bearded man approached the slab, careful not to block the
greenish light. He reached forward and wrapped his hand around the
outstretched fist of the skeletal engraving. He turned it, producing a low,
grinding click. The engraved shape of the door swung inwards, revealing a
large, dark space and a sound of distant, dripping water. Cold air pushed out
of the opening, filling the corridor and ruffling Mr. Saffron's black shirt. Mr.
Grey shivered as the sweat on his forehead went cold.
"Where's that go to? That space isn't even here, if you know what I
mean."
"Of course it isn't," Mr. Saffron replied tersely, but he was clearly
shaken as well. "It's the hidden depository. We was told about it, just like
everything else. That's where the chest is. Come now, we haven't much
time."
Mr. Pink led them through the doorway, ducking to fit through. It
became apparent by the smell and the echo of their footsteps that they were

in a deep cavern. Mr. Pink produced his wand and illuminated it, but it
revealed little more than the shiny, wet rock beneath their feet. The
blackness sucked at the light, and Mr. Grey had the sense that they were in a
place so deep that it had never known sunlight. Raw, musty cold pressed
onto their skin, chilling them after the warmth of the corridor. Mr. Grey
glanced back once and could just see the shape of the door leading back. It
glowed like a pillar of silvery light, almost as if it were a mirage.
"Wh-where do you think we are?" he asked.
"Air pocket in a cavern under the Atlantic ocean," Mr. Pink replied,
still walking.
"Under…" Mr. Grey said faintly, then swallowed. "I got a bad sense
about this. Really bad. I want to go back, Bistle."
"Don't call me Bistle," the goblin said automatically.
"What's in this chest, anyway?" Mr. Grey moaned. "It better be worth a
lot. I can't think of anything worth coming to a place like this."
"Never yeh mind that," Mr. Saffron said gruffly. "It's more than yeh've
ever dreamed of. We'll never have to work like this again. No more petty
cons and midnight holdups for us. Once we get the chest, we'll be set for
good."
"But what is it?" Mr. Grey insisted. "What's in the chest?"
"Well, yeh'll just wait and see, won't yeh?"
Mr. Grey stopped walking. "You don't know, do you?"
Mr. Saffron sputtered. "It doesn't matter what it is, yeh great dummy.
We was told it was more than we could ever dream of, wasn't we? Alls we
have to do is nick the box and gives a twenty percent share to our inside
informer. They'd hardly help us break into the Ministry of Magic if they

didn't have a prize bit of swag in mind, would they? Mr. Pink knows what it
is, anyway. Why don't yeh arsk him?"
"I don't know either," Mr. Pink said thoughtfully.
There was a long moment of silence. Mr. Grey heard the steady drip of
water echoing out of the darkness.
Finally Mr. Saffron said, "Yeh don't know neither?"
Mr. Pink shook his head slowly, barely visible in his own wand light.
The goblin frowned. "Each of us only knows what we needs to know,
aye?"
"All we need to know is where to go," Mr. Pink said. "Once we get
there, we'll know what to do."
The goblin nodded, remembering. "All right, then. Let's go, Mr. Pink.
You're the mapper."
"We're there," Mr. Pink replied. "It's Grey's job from here." He turned
and shone his wand ahead of them. A horrible, monstrous face loomed out
of the blackness, lit in the feeble silvery light. Mr. Grey's knees went
watery.
"It's jest a statue, yeh ninny," Mr. Saffron growled. "It's the dragon's
head we were tol' about. Go on and open it. Earn your share, Mr. Grey."
"I hate that name," Mr. Grey said, walking toward the dragon's head
statue. It was taller than he was, formed eerily from the stalactites and
stalagmites of the cavern wall. "I wanted to be Mr. Purple. I like purple."
He crouched and slipped his hands between the snaggle teeth of the
dragon's upper jaw. Mr. Grey was unusually strong, but lifting the dragon's
jaw required every ounce of his formidable power. Sweat streamed down

his face and neck as he strained, but the statue wouldn't budge. Finally, just
as Mr. Grey was certain he would tear his muscles loose from his bones,
there was a glassy shattering sound and the jaw jarred loose. The stalactites
that formed the hinge of the jaw had broken. Mr. Grey heaved the jaw
upwards until it was high enough for the others to scramble through.
"Hurry!" he ordered through gritted teeth.
"Just don't drop the blasted thing on us," Mr. Saffron whined as he and
Mr. Pink ducked into the gaping dragon's jaw.
The opening behind the dragon's head was low and almost perfectly
round. Stalactites and stalagmites surrounded the space like pillars
supporting a smooth, domed ceiling. The stone floor was terraced, leading
down to the center where a strange shape sat in the darkness.
"It's not a chest," Mr. Pink stated flatly.
"Nar," Mr. Saffron agreed. "But it's the only thing here, isn't it? Think
we can lug it between us?"
Mr. Pink descended the terraces, leaving the goblin to scramble after
him. They studied the object for a moment, and then Mr. Pink placed his
wand between his teeth. He bent down, grasping the object, and nodded for
the goblin to grasp the other side. It was surprisingly light, though crusted
with calcium and mineral. Clumsily, they carried the object between them,
hefting it up the terraces. Mr. Pink's wand light bobbed and jerked, making
their shadows leap wildly on the pillared walls.
Finally, they heaved the object through the open jaw of the dragon's
head statue. Mr. Grey was sweating profusely, his knees trembling. When
he saw that his companions were out of the way, he released the upper jaw.
It slammed down and shattered, producing a cloud of gritty dust and a
deafening crash. Mr. Grey collapsed backward onto the stony floor of the
cavern, faint with exertion.

"So what is it?" Mr. Saffron asked, ignoring Mr. Grey's heaving
breaths. "It doesn't look like it's worth a fortune."
"I never said it was worth a fortune," a voice said from the blackness
behind them. "I merely said it was enough to take care of you for life.
Funny how many meanings a phrase like that can have, isn't it?"
Mr. Saffron wheeled around, seeking the source of the voice, but Mr.
Pink turned slowly, almost as if he'd expected it. A shape formed out of the
darkness. It was draped in black robes. The face was obscured behind a
horrible glinting mask. Two more similarly dressed figures emerged from
the darkness.
"I recognize your voice," Mr. Pink said. "I should've known."
"Yes," the voice agreed. "You should've, Mr. Fletcher, but you didn't.
Your years of experience are no match for your innate greed. And now it is
too late."
"Wait now," Mr. Saffron cried, throwing up his hands. "We had us a
bargain. Yeh can't do this! We had a deal!"
"Yes we did, my goblin friend. Thank you very much for your
services. Here is your cut."
A flash of orange light leapt from one of the masked figures, striking
Mr. Saffron in the face. He stumbled and clutched at his throat, making
thick choking sounds. He collapsed backwards, still writhing.
Mr. Grey stood shakily to his feet. "That's not right. You shouldn't have
done that to Bistle. He only did what you asked."
"And we are only doing what we promised," the voice behind the mask
said pleasantly. There was another jet of orange light and Mr. Grey
collapsed heavily.

The three masked figures drifted closer, surrounding Mr. Pink. He looked
around at them
hopelessly. "At least tell me what it is," he said. "Tell me what this thing is
that you made us get for you, and why you made us do it instead of doing it
yourselves."
"Your last question, I am afraid, is none of your business, Mr.
Fletcher," the voice said, circling him. "As they say: if we told you, we'd
have to kill you. That would not be living up to our end of the bargain. We
promised to take care of you for life, and we intend to fulfill that promise. It
may not be much of a life, granted, but beggars cannot be choosers."
A wand appeared, pointing at Mr. Pink's face. He hadn't used the
name Fletcher for years. He'd given it up when he'd given up being a crook.
He'd tried so hard to be good and honest. But then he'd been approached
about this job: an inside job at the Ministry of Magic, a job so perfect, with
a payoff so grand, that he simply couldn't turn it down. Sure, all his old
friends in the Order would be disappointed in him, but most of them were
dead now, anyway. Nobody even knew his real name anymore. Or so he
thought. Apparently these people had known who he really was all along.
They'd used him, and now he was going to be disposed of. It was fitting, in
a way. He sighed.
The voice went on. "As for your first question, however, I expect we
can answer that. It seems only fair. And after today, who could you possibly
tell? You came looking for a chest of riches because you are a small man
with small aims. We are not small, Mr. Fletcher. Our aims are grand. And
thanks to you and your cohorts, we now have everything we need to
accomplish those aims. Our goal is power, and what you see here is the
means to that power. What you see here, Mr. Fletcher… is simply the end of
your world."
Hopelessness filled Mundungus Fletcher and he fell to his knees.
When the jet of orange light struck him, choking him, covering him with

darkness, he welcomed it. He embraced it.

1. Shadow of Legends
James Potter moved slowly along the narrow aisles of the train,
peering as nonchalantly as he could into each compartment. To those inside,
he probably looked as if he was searching for someone, some friend or
group of confidantes with whom to pass the time during the trip, and this
was intentional. The last thing that James wanted anyone to notice was that,
despite the bravado he had so recently displayed with his younger brother
Albus on the platform, he was nervous. His stomach knotted and churned as
if he'd had half a bite of one of Uncles Ron and George's Puking Pastilles.
He opened the folding door at the end of the passenger car and stepped
carefully through the passage into the next one. The first compartment was
full of girls. They were talking animatedly to one another, already
apparently the best of friends despite the fact that, most likely, they had
only just met. One of them glanced up and saw him staring. He quickly
looked away, pretending to peer out the window behind them, toward the
station which still sat bustling with activity. Feeling his cheeks go a little
red, he continued down the corridor. If only Rose was a year older she'd be
here with him. She was a girl, but she was his cousin and they'd grown up

together. It would've been nice to have at least one familiar face along with
him.
Of course, Ted and Victoire were also on the train. Ted, a seventh year,
had been so quickly absorbed into a noisy throng of returning friends and
classmates that he'd barely had time to wave and wink at James before
disappearing into a crammed compartment from which emanated the thump
of music on a sleek new wireless. Victoire, five years older than he, had
invited him to sit with her during the trip, but James wasn't as comfortable
with her as he was with Rose, and didn't relish the idea of listening to her
prattle on with the four other girls in her compartment about pixie powder
blushes and hair care charms. Being part Veela, Victoire had never had any
problem making friends of either gender, quickly and effortlessly. Besides,
something in James felt that he needed to assert himself as an individual
straight off, even if the thought left him feeling nervous and lonely.
It wasn't that he was worried about going to Hogwarts exactly. He'd
been looking forward to this day for most of his life, ever since he was old
enough to understand what it meant to be a wizard, ever since his mum had
told him of the school he'd one day attend, the secret school that witches
and wizards attended to learn magic. He was positively itching with
anticipation of his first classes, of learning to use the brand new wand that
he carried proudly in his backpack. More than anything, he was looking
forward to Quidditch on the Hogwarts pitch, getting on his first real broom,
trying out for the team, maybe, just maybe...
But that was where his excitement began to melt into cold anxiety. His
dad had been the Gryffindor Seeker, the youngest one in Hogwarts history.
The best he, James, could hope for was to match that record. That's what
everyone would expect of him, the first-born son of the famous hero. He
remembered the story, told to him dozens of times (although never by his
own dad) of how the young Harry Potter had won his first Golden Snitch by
virtually jumping off his broom, catching the golden ball in his mouth and
nearly swallowing it. The tellers of the tale would always laugh
uproariously, delightedly, and if Dad was there, he'd smile sheepishly as
they clapped him on the back. When James was four, he found that famed
Snitch in a shoe box in the bottom of the dining room hutch. His mum told

him it'd been a gift to Dad from the old school headmaster. The tiny wings
no longer worked, and the golden ball had a thin coat of dust and tarnish on
it, but James was mesmerized by it. It was the first Snitch he had ever seen
close up. It seemed both smaller and larger than he'd imagined, and the
weight of it in his small hand was surprising. This is the famous Snitch,
James thought reverently, the one from the story, the one caught by my dad.
He asked his dad if he could keep it, stored in the shoebox when he wasn't
playing with it, in his room. His dad agreed easily, happily, and James
moved the shoebox from the bottom of the hutch to a spot under the head of
his bed, next to his toy broom. He pretended the dark corner under his
headboard was his Quidditch locker. He spent many an hour pretending to
zoom and bank over the Quidditch green, chasing the fabled Snitch, in the
end, always catching it in a fantastic diving crash, jumping up, producing
his dad's tarnished Snitch for the approval of roaring imaginary crowds.
But what if James couldn't catch the Snitch, as his father had done?
What if he wasn't as good on the broom? Uncle Ron had said that riding a
broom was in the Potter blood as sure as dragons breathed fire, but what if
James proved him wrong? What if he was slow, or clumsy, or fell off? What
if he didn't even make the team? For the rest of the first years, that would
only be a mild disappointment. Even though the rules had been changed to
admit them, very few first years ever made the House teams. For James,
however, that would mean he already hadn't measured up to expectations.
He would already have failed to be as great as the great Harry Potter. And if
he couldn't even measure up to his dad in terms of something as elemental
as Quidditch, how could he ever hope to live up to the legend of the boy
who defeated the Basilisk, won the Triwizard Cup, united the Deathly
Hallows and, oh yeah, put old Moldy Voldy, the darkest and most
dangerous wizard who ever lived, in the ground for good?
The train gave a protracted, noisy lurch. Outside, the conductor's voice
called for the doors to be shut. James stopped in the corridor, suddenly
overcome by a cold certainty that the worst had already happened, he had
already failed miserably even before he'd begun to try. He felt a deep,
sudden stab of homesickness and blinked back tears, looking quickly into
the next compartment. There were two boys inside, neither talking, both
looking out the window as Platform Nine and Three Quarters began to slip

slowly past. James opened the door and blundered in quickly, hoping to see
his family outside the window, feeling an enormous need to make eye
contact with them one last time before it was too late. His own reflection in
the glass, lit by the hard morning sun, blotted the view of the crowd outside.
There were so many people; he would never find them in that throng. He
scanned the crowd desperately anyway. And then there they were. They
were just where he'd left them, a tiny knot of people standing still in the
milling faces, like rocks in a stream. They didn't see him, didn't know where
he was in the train. Uncle Bill and Aunt Fleur were waving to a point
further back on the train, apparently mouthing goodbyes to Victoire. Dad
and Mum stood smiling somewhat wistfully at the train, scanning the
windows. Albus stood next to Dad, and Lily held Mum's hand, transfixed
by the gigantic crimson engine as it chuffed great bursts of steam and hissed
and rang, picking up speed. And then Mum's eye caught James and her face
lit up. She said something and Dad turned, looked, and found him. They
both waved, smiling proudly. Mum wiped her eye with one hand, held up
Lily's hand with the other, waving it to James. James didn't smile back, but
watched them and felt a bit better anyway. They receded backward as if
they were on a conveyor belt, more faces, more waving hands and milling
bodies coming between them. James watched until they all vanished behind
a wall at the end of the platform, then he sighed, dropped his backpack onto
the floor, and plopped into a seat.
Several minutes of silence went by as James watched London scroll
past the windows. The city thinned into crowded suburbs and industrial
areas, all looking busy and purposeful in the bright morning sunlight. He
wondered, as he sometimes did, what life was like as a non-magical person,
and for once he envied them, going to their non-magical, less intimidating
(or so he thought) schools and jobs. Finally he turned his attention to the
two other boys sharing his compartment. One was seated on the same side
as him, closer to the door. He was big, with a squarish head and short dark
hair. He was flipping avidly through an illustrated booklet called Elemental
Magic: What to Know for the New Witch and Wizard. James had seen
copies of these being sold from a small stall on the platform. On the cover, a
good-looking teenaged wizard in school robes was winking as he conjured a
series of objects from a trunk. He had just produced a full-sized tree with
cheeseburgers for fruit when the boy flipped the cover backwards and

settled in to read one of the articles. James turned his attention to the boy
across from him, who was looking at him openly, smiling.
"I've got a cat," said the boy, unexpectedly. James blinked at him, and
then noticed the box sitting on the seat next to the boy. It had a hinged grate
for a door and a small black and white cat could be seen inside, lounging
and licking its forepaw. "You aren't allergic to cats, are you?" the boy asked
James earnestly.
"Oh. No," James replied, "I don't think so. My family has a dog, but
my Aunt Hermione has a big old carpet of a cat. I've never had a problem
with it."
"That's good," the boy answered matter-of-factly. He had an American
accent that James found a little amusing. "My mom and dad are both
allergic to cats so we could never have one, but I like them. When I saw that
I could bring a cat, I knew that was what I wanted. This is Thumbs. He has
extra toes, see? One on each paw. It's not particularly magical, I suppose,
but it makes him interesting. What'd you bring?"
"I've got an owl. He's been in the family for a few years. A big, old
barn owl with plenty of miles on him. I wanted a frog, but my dad says a
boy should start school with an owl. He says there's no more useful animal
for a first year, but I think he just wanted me to have one because he had
one."
The boy grinned happily. "So your dad is a wizard, too? Mine isn't.
Neither is my mom. I'm the first in my family. We just found out about the
magical world last year. I could hardly believe it! I always thought magic
was the sort of thing that happened at little kids' birthday parties. Guys in
tall black hats pulling silver dollars out of your ear. Stuff like that. Wow!
Have you known you were a wizard all your life?"
"Pretty much. It's hard to miss when your first memories are of your
grandparents arriving for Christmas morning via the fireplace," James
answered, watching the boy's eyes widen. "Of course, it never seemed
strange to me at all, you know. It was just life."

The boy whistled appreciatively. "That's wild and crazy! Lucky you!
Anyway, my name's Zane Walker. I'm from the States, if you haven't
guessed. My dad is working in England for the year, though. He works on
movies, which isn't as exciting as it sounds. I'll probably be going to the
wizarding school in America next year, but it looks like it's Hogwarts for
me this year, which is fine by me, although if they try to give me any more
kidneys or fish for breakfast, I think I'll blow a gasket. Good to meet you."
He finished in a rush, and reached across the compartment to shake James'
hand in a gesture that was so guileless and automatic that James almost
laughed. He shook Zane's hand happily, relieved to have so quickly made
an acquaintance. "I'm happy to meet you, too, Zane. My name's Potter.
James Potter."
Zane sat back and looked at James, tilting his head curiously. "Potter.
James Potter?" he repeated. James felt a small, familiar surge of pride and
satisfaction. He was used to being recognized, even if he pretended to not
always like it. Zane made a sort of quizzical half-frown, half-grin. "Where's
Q, double-oh-seven?"
James faltered. "Excuse me?"
"What? Oh, sorry," Zane said, his expression changing to one of
bemusement. "Thought you were making a James Bond joke. Hard to tell
with that accent."
"James who?" James said, feeling that the conversation was slipping
away from him. "And what accent? You're the one with the accent!"
"Your last name's Potter?" This came from the third boy in the
compartment. He'd lowered his booklet a little.
"Yes. James Potter."
"Potter!" Zane said in a fairly ridiculous attempt at an English accent.
"James Potter!" He raised his fist next to his face, index finger pointed
toward the ceiling like a pistol.

"Are you related to this Harry Potter kid?" said the bigger boy,
ignoring Zane. "Only I'm reading about him right here in this 'Brief History
of the Magical World' article. Seems like he was a pretty big deal."
"He's not a kid anymore," James laughed. "He's my dad. He's less of a
big deal when you see him eating Wheatabix in his boxers each morning."
This wasn't technically true, but it always put people at ease to think they'd
gotten a mental glimpse of the great Harry Potter in a candid moment. The
large boy raised his eyebrows, frowning slightly. "Wow! Cool. Says here he
defeated the most dangerous evil wizard ever. Some guy named, umm…"
He glanced down at the booklet, scanning it. "It's right here somewhere.
Volda-whatsit or something."
"Yeah, it's true," James said. "But really, now he's just my dad. That
was a long time ago." But the other boy had turned his attention to Zane.
"You're Muggle-born, too?" he asked. Zane looked baffled for a
moment. "What? I'm what-born?"
"Non-magical parents. Like me," said the bigger boy seriously. "I'm
trying to learn the language. My dad says it's important to get a handle on
the basics straight off. He's a Muggle, but he's already read Hogwarts: A
History cover to cover. He quizzed me on it the whole ride in. Ask me a
question. Anything." He glanced back and forth between Zane and James.
James raised his eyebrows at Zane, who frowned and shook his head.
"Um. What's seven times forty-three?"
The bigger boy rolled his eyes and slumped in his seat. "I meant about
Hogwarts and the wizarding world."
"I've got a new wand," Zane said, abandoning the bigger boy and
turning to dig in his pack. "It's made of birch, with a unicorn tail in it or
something. Can't get it to do squat, yet. Not for lack of effort, though, I'll
tell you that." He turned, flourishing the wand, which was wrapped in
yellow cloth.

"I'm Ralph, by the way," said the bigger boy, putting aside his booklet.
"Ralph Deedle. I just got my wand yesterday. It's made of willow, with a
Himalayan yeti whisker core."
James glanced at him. "A what?"
"A Himalayan yeti whisker. Very rare, according to the man we bought
it from. Cost my dad twenty Galleons. Which translates to a good bit, I
think." He studied Zane's and James' faces in turn. "Er, why?"
James raised his eyebrows. "It's just that I've never heard of a
Himalayan yeti."
Ralph sat up and leaned forward earnestly. "Sure! You know what
those are. Some people call them abominable snowmen. I always thought
they were imaginary, you know. But then on my birthday, my dad and me
found out I was a wizard, and I'd always thought wizards were imaginary,
too! Well, now I'm learning about all kinds of crazy things that I thought
were imaginary that are turning out to be true." He picked up his booklet
again and fanned the pages with one hand, gesturing vaguely with the other.
"Just out of curiosity," James said carefully, "where did you buy your
wand?"
Ralph grinned. "Oh, well we thought that was going to be the hard
part, didn't we? I mean, there don't seem to be wand merchants on every
corner where we come from, which is Surrey. So we got down here to the
city early and followed the directions to that Diagon Alley place. No
problem! There was a man right there on the street corner with a little
booth."
Zane was watching Ralph with interest.
"A little booth," James prodded.

"Yeah! Of course, he didn't have the wands right there in the open. He
was selling maps. Dad bought one and asked directions to the best
wandmaker in town. My dad develops security software. For computers.
Did I mention that? Anyway, he asked for the best, most state of the art
wandmaker. Turned out the man was an expert wandmaker himself. Only
makes a few a year, but keeps them special for people who really know
what they are looking for. So Dad bought the best one he had."
James was trying to keep his face straight. "The best one he had," he
repeated.
"Yeah," Ralph confirmed. He dug in his own backpack and pulled out
something about the size of a rolling pin, wrapped in brown paper.
"The one with the yeti core," James confirmed.
Ralph suddenly glanced at him, halfway through unwrapping the
package he'd removed from his backpack. "You know, it starts sounding a
little silly when you say it, doesn't it?" he asked a bit morosely. "Ah,
bugger."
He pulled the brown paper off. It was about eighteen inches long and
as thick as a broomstick. The end had been whittled to a dull point and
painted lime green. They all stared at it. After a moment, Ralph looked a bit
desperately at James. "It's not really good for anything magical, is it?"
James tilted his head. "Well, it'd be a treat for killing vampires with, I'd
think."
"Yeah?" Ralph brightened.
Zane straightened and pointed to the door of the compartment. "Woo!
Food! Hey, James, you got any of that wacky wizard money? I'm starved."
The old witch that operated the food cart peered into the open door of
their compartment. "Anything you'd fancy, dears?"

Zane had jumped up and was looking eagerly over her wares,
examining them with a serious, critical eye. He glanced back at James
expectantly. "Come on, Potter, now's your chance to welcome us
Muggleborns to the table with a little wizard generosity. All I have is an
American ten dollar bill." He turned back to the witch. "You don't take
American greenbacks, do you?"
She blinked and looked slightly aghast. "American green… excuse
me?"
"Drat. I thought not," Zane said, wiggling his upturned palm towards
James.
James dug in the pocket of his jeans, bemused and amazed at the boy's
temerity. "Wizard money isn't like play money, you know," he said
reproachfully, but there was a smile in his voice.
Ralph looked up from his booklet again, blinking. "Did he just say 'drat'?"
"Oooh! Look at this!" Zane cried happily. "Cauldron Cakes! And
Licorice Wands! You wizards really know how to carry a metaphor. Us
wizards, I mean. Heh!"
James paid the witch and Zane flopped back into his seat, opening a
box of Licorice Wands. Assorted colors of wands were laid out in neat
compartments. Zane produced a red one, brandished it, and then flicked it
toward Ralph. There was a pop and a shower of tiny, purple flowers
peppered the front of Ralph's tee shirt. Ralph glanced down at them.
"Better than I've gotten out of my own wand, yet," Zane said, biting off
the end of the wand with gusto.
James was surprised and pleased to find that he wasn't nervous
anymore, or at least not much. He opened the box containing his own
Chocolate Frog, caught the frog in the air as it leaped out, and bit its head
off. He looked down into the bottom of the box and saw the face of his dad

peering up at him. 'Harry Potter, the Boy Who Lived', ran the caption at the
bottom of the card. He took the card out of the box and handed it to Ralph.
"Here. A little something for my new Muggle-born friend," he said as
Ralph took it. Ralph hardly noticed. He was chewing, holding up one of the
tiny, purple flowers. "I don't know for sure," he said, looking at it, "but I
think these are made out of meringue."

After the initial rush of excitement and worry, then the whirlwind of
making new acquaintances, the rest of the train ride seemed remarkably
mundane. James found himself in turns either acting as a tour guide for his
two new friends or having their conversation explained to him wherever
they centered on Muggle life and concepts. He found it incredible that they
had apparently spent a great chunk of their lives watching television.
Whenever they weren't watching it, it seemed that they and their friends
were playing games on it, pretending to drive racing cars or go on
adventures or play sports. James had, of course, heard of television and
video games, but having had mostly wizard friends, he'd assumed Muggle
children only engaged in those activities when there was absolutely nothing
better to do. When he asked Ralph why he'd spent so much time playing
sports on the television instead of playing them in real life, Ralph merely
rolled his eyes, made an exasperated noise, and then looked helplessly at
Zane. Zane had clapped James on the back and said, "James, buddy, it's a
Muggle thing. You wouldn't understand."
James, in turn, had explained as best he could about Hogwarts and the
magical world. He told them about the unplottable nature of the castle,
which meant it couldn't be found on any map by anyone who didn't already
know its location. He described the school houses and explained the House
points system Dad and Mum had told him about. He tried, as best he could,
to explain Quidditch, which seemed to leave both of them confused and
frustratingly unenthusiastic. Zane had had the ridiculous idea that only
witches rode brooms, apparently based on a movie called The Wizard of

Oz. James tried very patiently to explain that both wizards and witches rode
brooms and that it wasn't at all 'a girly thing'. Zane, apparently sensing the
consternation this was causing, went on to insist that all witches were
supposed to have green skin and warts on their noses, and the conversation
quickly deteriorated.
Just as evening was beginning to turn the sky a pale purple and
silhouette the trees outside the train's windows, a tall, older boy with neatly
cropped blonde hair knocked sharply on their compartment door.
"Hogsmeade Station straight ahead," he said, leaning in with an air of brisk
purpose. "You fellows will want to be getting your school robes on."
Zane frowned and raised his eyebrows at the boy. "We will, will we?"
he asked. "It's almost seven o'clock. Are you quite sure?" He pronounced
the word 'quite' with his ridiculous English accent. The older boy's brow
darkened very slightly.
"My name is Steven Metzker. Fifth year. Prefect. And you are?"
Zane jumped up, offering the boy his hand in a parody of the gesture
he'd shown James at the beginning of the trip. "Walker. Zane Walker. Happy
to meet you Mr. Prefect."
Steven glanced down at the proffered hand, and then decided, with an
apparently great effort, to go ahead and shake it. He spoke to the
compartment at large as he did so. "There will be a dinner in the Great Hall
promptly upon your arrival on the school grounds. School robes are
required. I will assume by your accent, Mr. Walker," he said, retracting his
hand and looking bracingly at Zane, "that dressing for dinner is a relatively
new concept. No doubt you'll catch on fast." He caught James' eye, dropped
a quick wink, and then disappeared down the corridor.
"No doubt I shall," Zane said cheerfully.
James helped Ralph and Zane make sense of their robes. Ralph had put
his on backwards, making him look to James like the youngest cleric he'd

ever seen. Zane, liking the look, had turned his around on purpose,
proclaiming that if it wasn't the style yet, it soon would be. Only when
James had insisted that it would be disrespectful to the school and teachers
did Zane reluctantly agree to turn it back around.
James had been told repeatedly and in great detail what would happen
when they arrived. He knew about Hogsmeade Station, had even been there
a few times when he was very young, although he had no memories of it.
He knew about the boats which would ferry them across the lake and had
seen dozens of pictures of the castle. Still, he discovered that none of that
had quite prepared him for the grandness and solemnity of it. As the tiny
boats glided across the lake, drawing V-shaped wakes on the glassy water,
James stared with a kind of wonder that was perhaps even greater than that
felt by those with him who hadn't come believing they knew what to expect.
The sheer bulk of the castle amazed him as it rambled and clumped on the
great rocky hilltop. It soared upwards in turrets and ramparts, each
structural detail lit on one side by the blue of the approaching night, on the
other by the golden rose of the setting sun. A galaxy of windows dotted the
castle, glowing a warm yellow on the shaded sides, glittering like sunfire on
the lit. The massiveness and weight of the sight seemed to press down on
James with a pleasant awe, going straight through him and down, down,
into its own reflection deep in the mirror of the lake.
There was one detail he hadn't expected, however. Halfway across the
lake, just as conversation had begun to spring up again among the new
students and they began to hoot excitedly and call to each other across the
water, James noticed another boat on the lake. Unlike the ones he and his
fellow first years rode in, it wasn't lit by a lantern. Nor was it approaching
the castle. It was pointed away from the lights of Hogwarts, a larger boat
than his own, but still small enough to be nearly lost in the dim shadows at
the edge of the lake. There was one person in it, lanky and thin, almost
spiderlike. James thought it looked like a woman. Just as he was about to
turn away and forget the decidedly unremarkable sight, the figure looked up
at him suddenly, as if aware of his curiosity. In the darkening light, he was
almost sure their eyes met, and a totally unexpected coldness came over
him. It was indeed a woman. Her skin was dark, her face bony, hard, with
high cheeks and a sharp chin. A scarf was tied down neatly over her head,

hiding most of her hair. The look on her face as she watched him watch her
wasn't frightened or angry. Her face didn't seem to have any expression at
all, in fact. And then she vanished. James blinked in surprise, before
realizing, a moment later, that she hadn't actually vanished, she had simply
been obscured behind a hedge of reeds and cattails as their boats grew
further apart. He shook his head, smiled at himself for being a typically
jumpy first year, and then returned his gaze to the journey ahead.
The gaggle of first years entered the courtyard with a chorus of
appreciative chatter. James found himself straggling, threading almost
unconsciously to the rear of the group as they climbed the steps into the
brightly lit corridor. There was Mr. Filch, whom James recognized by his
hair, scowl, and the cat, Mrs. Norris, which he held cradled in the crook of
his arm. Here were the enchanted staircases, even now creaking and
grinding into new positions to the mingled delight and trepidation of the
new students. And here, finally, were the doors into the Great Hall, their
panels gleaming mellowly in the light of the chandeliers. As the students
congregated there, conversation faltered to silence. Zane, standing shoulder
to shoulder with Ralph, who was nearly a head taller, turned and looked
over his shoulder at James, waggling his eyebrows and grinning.
The doors creaked and swung inwards, light and sound pouring out
through them as they revealed the Great Hall in all its splendor. The four
long House tables were full of students, hundreds of faces grinning,
laughing, chattering, and capering. James looked for Ted, but couldn't find
him in the throng.
The tall, slightly gawky teacher who'd led them to the doors turned and
faced them, smiling disarmingly. "Welcome to Hogwarts, first years!" he
called over the noise of the Hall. "My name is Professor Longbottom. You'll
be sorted into your houses straight off. Once that's done, you'll find your
table and dinner will be served. Please follow me."
He turned with a flap of his robes and proceeded briskly down the
center of the Great Hall.

Nervously, the first years began to follow, first in a shuffle, then in a
brisk trot, trying to keep up. James saw the heads of Ralph and Zane crane
back, their chins pointing higher and higher. He'd almost forgotten about the
enchanted ceiling. He looked up himself, but only a little, not wanting to
look like he was too impressed. The higher he looked, the more the ceiling
beams and alcoves retreated into transparency, revealing a stunning
representation of the outside sky. Cold, brittle-looking stars glittered like
silver dust on jeweler's velvet and off to the right, just over the Gryffindor
table, the half-moon could be seen, its giant face looking both mad and
jolly.
"Did he say his name was Longbottom?" Zane said to James out of the
corner of his mouth.
"Yeah. Neville Longbottom."
"Wow," Zane breathed. "You Brits really have a thing to learn about
subtlety. I don't even know where to start with a name like that." Ralph
shushed him as the crowd began to quiet, noticing the first years lining up
along the front of the hall.
James looked along the table on the dais, trying to pick out all the
teachers he knew about. There was Professor Slughorn, looking just as fat
and ridiculously baroque as his parents had described. Slughorn, James
recalled, had come on as a temporary teacher during his parents' time,
apparently reluctantly, and then simply never left. Next to him was the
ghostly Professor Binns, then Professor Trelawney, blinking owlishly
behind her gigantic spectacles. Further down the table, recognizable by his
size (James could see he sat on a stack of three enormous books) was
Professor Flitwick. Several other faces James didn't recognize were
scattered about: teachers who'd come since his parents' time and were
therefore relatively unfamiliar. No sign of Hagrid, but James had learned
that he was off among the giants again with Grawp, and wouldn't return
until the following day. Finally, at the center of the table, just then standing
and raising her arms, was Minerva McGonagall, the Headmistress.

"Welcome returning students, and welcome new students," she said in
her piercing, rather tremulous voice, "to this first banquet of this new year
at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry." A cheer of happy
acknowledgement went up from the seated students behind James. He
glanced back over his shoulder, scanning the crowd. He saw Ted seated,
hooting through his cupped hands, surrounded by group of somehow
impossibly handsome and beautiful older boys and girls at the Gryffindor
table. James tried to smile at him, but Ted didn't notice.
As the cheers diminished, Professor McGonagall continued. "I'm glad
to see you are all as excited to be here as are your teachers and school staff.
Let us hope that this spirit of mutual understanding and unity of purpose
accompanies us throughout the school year." She eyed the crowd, picking
out certain individuals. James heard scattered scuffling and the marked
silences of conspicuous guilty grins.
"And now," the Headmistress went on, turning to watch as a chair was
carried onto the stage by two older students. James noticed that one of them
was Steven Metzker, the prefect they'd encountered on the train. "As is our
proud tradition on the occasion of our first gathering, let us witness the
Sorting of our newest students into their respective houses. First years, will
you please approach the platform? I will be calling your names individually.
You will approach the platform and have a seat…"
James tuned out the rest. He knew this ceremony well, having quizzed
his parents endlessly about it. He had been, in the previous days, more
excited about the Sorting ceremony than he had been about anything else.
In truth, he recognized now that his excitement had actually masked a
numbing, terrible fear. The Sorting Hat was the first test he'd have to pass in
order to prove he was the man his parents expected him to be, the man the
wizarding world had already begun to assume he was. It hadn't quite hit him
until he'd seen the article in the Daily Prophet several weeks earlier. It had
been a fluffy, happy, little article of the 'whatever happened to so-and-so'
variety, and yet it had filled James with a sort of cold, creeping dread. The
article summarized the ongoing biography of Harry Potter, now married to
his school sweetheart, Ginny Weasley, and announced that James, the firstborn son of Harry and Ginny Potter, was to be attending his first year at

Hogwarts. James had been particularly haunted by the line that ended the
article. He could recall it word for word: We at the Daily Prophet, along
with the rest of the magical world, wish young Mr. Potter all the best as he
moves on to fulfill, and perhaps even surpass, the expectations any of us
could hope to have of the son of such a beloved and legendary figure.
What would the Daily Prophet, or the rest of the wizarding world,
think of the son of the beloved and legendary figure if he sat on that chair
and the Sorting Hat proclaimed him something other than a Gryffindor?
Back on Platform Nine and Three Quarters, James had confided this very
fear to his dad.
"There isn't any more magic in being a Gryffindor than there is in
being a Hufflepuff or a Ravenclaw or a Slytherin, James," Harry Potter had
said, squatting down and putting his hand on the boy's shoulder. James had
pressed his lips together, knowing his dad would say something like that.
"Would that have comforted you back when you were getting ready to
sit on the chair and put that hat on your head?" he'd asked in a low, serious
voice.
His dad didn't answer, only pressed his lips together, smiled ruefully
and shook his head. "But I was a worried, superficial, little git back then,
James, my boy. Try not to be like me in that regard, OK? We know great
witches and wizards from all the houses. I'll be proud and honored to have
my son in any of them."
James had nodded, but it hadn't worked. He knew what his dad really
wanted--and expected-despite the talk. James was to be a Gryffindor, just
like Mum and Dad, just like his uncles and aunt, just like all the heroes and
legends he'd been told about since he was a baby, all the way back to
Godric Gryffindor himself, greatest of all the founders of Hogwarts.
And yet now, as he stood, watching the Sorting Hat being produced
and held aloft by the skinny arms of Headmistress McGonagall, he found
that all his fears and worries had somehow drained away. He'd had a sort of
idea during the last few hours. Now it came fully to the front of his mind.

He had assumed all along that he had no choice but to compete with his
father and try to fill his enormous shoes. His subsequent terrible fear had
been that he would be unequal to the task, that he would fail. But what if
there was another option? What if he simply didn't try?
James stared ahead, unseeing, as the first students were called to the
chair, as the hat was lowered onto their heads, almost hiding their intensely
curious, upturned eyes. He looked like a statue--a statue of a small boy with
his father's unruly black hair and his mother's nose and expressive lips.
What if he simply didn't try to live up to the giant shadow cast by his dad?
Not that he wouldn't be great in his own way. It would just be a very
different way. A decidedly, intentionally different way. And what if that
started here? Right here, on the platform, on his first day, being
proclaimed… well, something other than a Gryffindor. That would be all
that mattered. Unless…
"James Potter," the voice of the Headmistress rang out with her
distinctive rolled 'r' on his last name. He startled, looking up at her as if he'd
forgotten she was there. She looked a hundred feet tall standing there on the
platform, her arm held out ramrod straight and holding the Sorting Hat over
the chair, casting a triangular shadow onto it. He was about to move
forward and climb the short flight of steps to the platform when a noise
broke out behind him. It shocked and worried him for a moment. He was
irrationally afraid that somehow his thoughts had gotten out and betrayed
him, that it was the noise of the Gryffindor table standing, booing him. But
it wasn't the sound of booing. It was the sound of applause, polite and
sustained, in response to the calling of his name. James turned to the
Gryffindor table, a smile of gratitude and happiness already lighting his
face. But they weren't the ones applauding. They sat there rather blankly.
Most of their heads were turned toward the source of the sound. James
turned, following their eyes. It was the Slytherin table.
James felt rooted to the spot. The entire table was looking at him with
pleasant smiles, every one open, happy, applauding. One of the students, a
tall, very attractive girl with wavy black hair and large, sparkling eyes, was
standing. She clapped lightly but confidently, smiling directly at James.

Finally, the other tables began to join in, first in dribs and drabs, and then in
a sustained, rather puzzled ovation.
"Yes. Yes, thank you," Headmistress McGonagall called over the
applause. "That will be enough. We are all quite, er, happy that we have
young Mr. Potter here with us this year. Now, if you'll please resume your
seats…" James began his ascent of the dais while the applause died down.
As he turned and sat down on the chair, he heard the Headmistress mutter,
"So we can finish this and have dinner before the next equinox." James
turned to look up at her, but saw only the dark maw of the Sorting Hat
coming down on top of him. He closed his eyes tightly and felt the cool
softness of the hat cover his head, slipping down over his brow.
Instantly, all other sound stopped. James was in the mind of the hat, or
perhaps it was the other way around. It spoke, but not to him.
"Potter, James, yes, I've been expecting this one. The third Potter that's
come under my brim. Always difficult, these…," it mused to itself, as if it
enjoyed the challenge. "Courage, yes, as always, but courage is cheap in the
young. Still, good Gryffindor stock, just like the ones before."
James' heart leaped. Then he remembered the thought he'd had
standing before the dais and he faltered. I don't have to play the game, he
thought to himself. I don't have to be a Gryffindor. He thought of the
applause, thought of the face of the pretty girl with the long, wavy black
hair, standing beneath the green and silver banner.
"Slytherin, he thinks!" the hat spoke in his head, considering. "Yes,
always that possibility as well. Like his father. He'd have made a great
Slytherin, but hadn't the will. Hmm, very unsure of himself is this one, and
that is a first for a Potter. Lack of sureness is neither a Gryffindor nor a
Slytherin trait. Perhaps Hufflepuff would do him some good…"
Not Hufflepuff, thought James. Faces swam up before him in his mind:
Mum and Dad, Uncle Ron, Aunt Hermione, Gryffindors all. Then they
faded and he saw the girl at the Slytherin table, smiling, applauding. He

heard himself thinking, as he had thought minutes earlier, I could be great in
a different way, an intentionally different way…
"Not Hufflepuff, hmm? Perhaps you're right. Yes, I see it now.
Confused you may be, but
uncertain you are not. My initial instincts are correct, as always." And then
aloud, the Sorting Hat called out the name of his house.
The hat was whipped off his head, and James had actually thought he'd
heard the word 'Slytherin' still echoing from the walls, actually looked with
sudden horror toward the green and silver table to see them applauding,
when he realized it was the table beneath the crimson lion that had jumped
up and applauded. The Gryffindor table cheered loudly and raucously, and
James realized how much more he liked that than the polite, practiced
applause he'd gotten earlier. He leaped from the chair, ran down the steps,
and was enveloped amongst the cheers. Hands patted his back and reached
out to shake his and high-five him. A seat near the front opened for him and
a voice spoke in his ear as the cheers finally subsided.
"Never doubted it a minute, mate," the voice whispered happily. James
turned to see Ted give him a confident nod and a slap on the back before
settling back to his seat. Turning back to watch the rest of the Sorting
ceremony, James felt, so suddenly, perfectly happy that he thought he might
split right down the middle. He didn't have to follow exactly in his dad's
footsteps, but maybe he could start doing things deliberately differently
tomorrow. For now, he gloried in the knowledge that Mum and Dad would
be thrilled to know that he, like them, was a Gryffindor.
When Zane's name was called, he trotted up the steps and plopped on
the chair as if he thought it was going to take him on a roller coaster ride.
He grinned as the shadow of the hat fell over his head, and it had no sooner
done so than the hat cried out "Ravenclaw!" Zane raised his eyebrows and
rocked his head back and forth in a cheerfully mystified way that brought a
peal of laughter from the crowd even as the Ravenclaws cheered and
beckoned him to their table.

The rest of the first years made their way to the dais and the house
tables filled out appreciably. Ralph Deedle was one of the last to climb up
and sit on the chair. He seemed to shrink a bit under the hat as it thought for
a surprisingly long time. Then, with a flourish of its peak, the hat
announced, "Slytherin!"
James was stunned. He had been sure that at least one, if not both, of
his new friends would end up seated next to him at the Gryffindor table.
Neither of them had joined him, however, and one of them, the one he least
expected, had become a Slytherin. Of course, he conveniently forgot that he
himself had almost succeeded in getting sent there. But Ralph? A Muggleborn if ever there was one? He turned and saw Ralph seating himself at the
table on the far side of the room, being patted on the back by his new
housemates. The girl with the sparkling eyes and the wavy black hair was
smiling again, pleasantly, welcomingly. Maybe Slytherin House had
changed, he thought. Dad and Mum would hardly believe it.
Finally, Headmistress McGonagall put the Sorting Hat away. "First
years," she called, "your new house is your home, but we are all your
family. Let us enjoy competitions wherever we may find them, but never
forget where our ultimate loyalties lie. And now," she pushed her spectacles
onto her nose and addressed the crowd over them. "Announcements. As
always, the Forbidden Forest is off limits to students at all times. Please be
sure that this is not a merely academic preference. First years may ask any
older students-except for Mr. Ted Lupin and Mr. Noah Metzker, whose
counsel you might wish to avoid on the matter-what they can expect if they
determine to ignore this rule."
James let the rest of the announcements roll over him as he scanned
the faces of the crowd. Zane, at the Ravenclaw table, had pulled a bowl of
nuts in front of him and was determinedly working his way through it.
Across the room, Ralph caught James' eye and gestured wonderingly at
himself and his new housemates, seeming to ask James if it was all right.
James shrugged and nodded noncommittally.
"Leaving us with one last order of business," the Headmistress finally

said, to the accompaniment of a few brave cheers. "Some of you may have
noticed that there is one empty chair amidst your teachers here on the dais.
Rest assured that you shall have a Defense Against the Dark Arts professor
and that he is indeed a uniquely qualified and gifted expert on the subject.
He will be arriving tomorrow afternoon, along with a full complement of
fellow teachers, students, and associates, as part of a year-long international
magical summit between his school and ours. I will expect you all to turn
out tomorrow afternoon in the main courtyard for the arrival of the
representatives from Alma Aleron and the United States Department of
Magical Administration."
Sounds of mingled excitement and derision erupted in the hall as the
students instantly turned to discuss this rather remarkable turn of events
with their fellows. James heard Ted say, "What is some old Yank gonna be
able to tell us about the Dark Arts? What channel to watch them on?" There
was a chorus of laughter. James turned around, looking for Zane. He found
him, caught his eye, and pointed at him, shrugging. Your people are coming
here, he mouthed. Zane clapped his hand over his heart and saluted with the
other.
In the midst of the debate, dinner appeared on the long tables, and
James, along with the rest of Hogwarts, dug in with fervor.

It was nearly midnight by the time James made his way to the portrait
of the Fat Lady marking the entrance to the Gryffindor common room.
"Password," she sang out. James stopped short, letting his green
backpack slip off his shoulder and thump to the floor. No one had told him
any passwords.
"I don't know the password yet. I'm a first year. I'm a Gryffindor," he added
lamely.

"Gryffindor you may be," said the Fat Lady, looking him up and down
with an air of polite patience, "but no password, no entry."
"Maybe you could give me a little hint this time?" James said, trying to
smile winningly.
The Fat Lady stared at him levelly. "You seem to have some
unfortunate misunderstanding of the nature of the term 'password', my
dear."
There was a commotion on the moving staircase nearby. It swung into
view and settled, lurching slightly, at the end of the landing. A group of
older students clambered up, laughing and shushing each other
conspicuously. Ted was among them.
"Ted," James called in relief, "I need the password. A little help?"
Ted saw James as he and the others approached. "Genisolaris," he said,
and then added to one of the girls in the group, "Hurry it up, Petra, and don't
let Noah's brother see you."
She nodded, brushing past James as the portrait of the Fat Lady swung
open to reveal the fire-lit glow of the common room. James began to follow
her in when Ted threw an arm around his shoulder, turning him around and
bringing him back out onto the landing. "My dear James, you can't imagine
we're going to let you toddle off to bed at such an early hour, do you? There
are Gryffindor traditions to think about, for Merlin's sake."
"What?" James stammered. "It's midnight. You know that, do you?"
"Commonly known in the Muggle world as 'The Witching Hour'," Ted
said instructively. "A misnomer, of course, but 'The Witching and
Wizarding Pulling Tricks on Unsuspecting Muggle Country Folk Hour' is
just a bit too long for anyone to remember. We like to call it, simply,
'Raising the Wocket'."

Ted was leading James back toward the stairs, along with three other
Gryffindors. "The what?" James asked, trying to keep up.
"Boy doesn't know what the Wocket is," Ted said mournfully to the
rest of the group. "And his dad's the owner of the famous Marauder's Map.
Just think how much easier this would be if we could get our hands on that
bit of skullduggery. James, let me introduce you to the rest of the Gremlins,
a group you may indeed hope to join, depending on how things go tonight,
of course." Ted stopped, turned and threw his arm wide, indicating the three
others skulking along with them. "My number one, Noah Metzker, whose
only flaw is his unwitting relationship to his fifth-year prefect brother."
Noah bowed curtly at the waist, grinning. "Our treasurer," Ted continued,
"if we ever manage to come across any coin, Sabrina Hildegard." A
pleasant faced girl with a spray of freckles and a quill stuck in her thick
reddish hair nodded to James. "Our scapegoat, should such services ever be
required, young Damien Damascus," Ted gripped the shoulder of a stout
boy with heavy glasses and a pumpkin-like face who grimaced at him and
growled. "And finally, my alibi, my perfect foil, everyone's favorite
teacher's favorite, Ms. Petra Morganstern." Ted gestured affectionately to
the girl who was just returning from the portrait hole, stuffing something
small into her jeans pocket. James noticed that everyone but him had
changed out of their robes and into jeans and dark sweatshirts. "Is
everything clear for takeoff?" Ted asked Petra as she met them.
"Affirmative. All systems go, Captain," she replied, and there was a
titter from Damien. They all turned and began to descend the staircase, Ted
steering James along with them.
"Should I go change or something?" he asked, his voice shaking as he
pounded down the stairs.
Ted gave him an appraising look. "No, I don't think that'll be necessary
in your case. Relax, mate. You're going to have a blast. So to speak. Jump
just here, then. You don't want to step on that step, mind you." James
jumped, his backpack swinging from his shoulder, feeling himself pulled

along partly by the group's enthusiasm, but mostly by Ted's grip on his
elbow. He landed on the floor of a long, torch lit corridor and stumbled to
keep up. At the end of the hall, the group met three more students, all
standing in the shadow thrown by a statue of a gigantic, hunchbacked
wizard wearing a very tall hat.
"Good evening, fellow Gremlins," Ted whispered as they all clustered
together in the shadow of the statue. "Meet James, son of my godfather,
some guy named Harry Potter." James grinned sheepishly at the new faces,
and then did a double take at the third face in the group. "James, meet our
Ravenclaw chapter, Horace, Gennifer, and young whatsisname." He turned
to Gennifer. "What's his name?" he asked, gesturing at the boy on the end.
"Zane," Gennifer said, throwing an arm around the smaller boy, who
grinned and let himself be playfully shaken. "Just met him tonight, but he's
got a little something that says Gremlin to me. I'm thinking there might be
some imp in his lineage somewhere."
"We're gonna play Hunt the Wocket!" Zane said to James in a stage
whisper that carried along the entire corridor. "Sounds iffy to me, but if
this'll make us cool, well, I figured we might as well get it out of the way
straight off!" James couldn't tell if Zane was joking, and then he realized it
didn't really matter.
"Raise the Wocket," Noah corrected.
James decided it was time to impress himself upon the conversation.
"So where is this Wocket? And why are we all crammed into a corner
behind a statue?"
"This isn't just any old statue," Petra said as Ted shimmied as far
between the statue and the wall as he could, apparently looking for
something. "This is St. Lokimagus the Perpetually Productive. We only
learned his story last year and it led us to a rather amazing discovery."
"Led you, you mean," Ted said, his voice muffled.

Petra considered this and nodded. "True enough," she agreed matter-offactly.
"Back in your father's day," Noah said as Ted scratched around behind
the statue, "there were six secret passages in and out of Hogwarts. But that
was before the Battle. After that, a lot of the castle was rebuilt, and all the
old secret passages were permanently sealed off. Funny thing about a
magical castle, though. It just seems to grow new secret passages. We've
only found two, and those only because of Petra and our Ravenclaw friends
here. St. Lokimagus the Perpetually Productive is one of them. It's all right
there in his slogan."
Noah pointed to the words engraved into the statue's base: Igitur Qui
Moveo, Qui et Movea.
Ted made a grunt of triumph and there was a loud click. "You'll never
guess where it was this time," he said, puffing from beneath the statue. With
a grind of moving stone, the statue of St. Lokimagus straightened up as
much as his humped back would allow, stepped carefully off his plinth, and
then walked across the corridor with a slightly bowlegged gait. He
disappeared into the door opposite, which James saw was a boys' bathroom.
"What's his slogan mean?" James asked as the Gremlins began to duck
hurriedly into the low doorway on the back of St. Lokimagus' plinth. Noah
grinned and shrugged. "When you gotta go, you gotta go."
The passage led to a short stairway with rounded stone steps. The
Gremlins pounded noisily up the steps, and then shushed each other as they
reached a doorway. Ted creaked the door open a fraction, peering through
the crack. A moment later he pushed the door wide and motioned for the
rest to follow him outside.
The door opened inexplicably out of a small shed near what James
recognized as the Quidditch pitch. The tall grandstands rose into the
moonlight, looking bleak and imposing in the silence.

"The passage only works one way," Sabrina explained to James and
Zane as the group ran lightly across the Quidditch pitch toward the hills
beyond. "If you go into it without having come through St. Lokimagus'
tunnel first you just find yourself in the equipment shed. Pretty convenient,
since it means that even if we get caught, nobody else can chase us back
through the tunnel."
"Have you gotten caught yet?" James asked, puffing along next to her.
"No, but this is the first time we've tried to use it. We only discovered
it at the end of last year." She shrugged as if to say we'll see how this turns
out, won't we?
Zane's voice came out of the darkness behind James, conversationally.
"What if St. Magic Buns gets done with the loo before we all come back
through his hole?" James shuddered at Zane's turn of phrase, but admired
his logic. It seemed like a question worth asking.
"That's definitely a question for a Ravenclaw," Noah called back as
quietly as he could, but nobody answered.
After ten minutes of skirting the border of a scraggly, moonlit wood,
the group clambered over a wire fence into a field. Ted pulled his wand
from his back pocket as he approached a patch of rambling bushes and
weeds. James followed and saw that there was a low barn hidden among the
growth. It was ramshackle, bowed and buried in vines.
"Alohomora," Ted said, pointing his wand at the large rusted padlock
hanging on the door. There was a flash of yellow light. It bloomed out of
the lock, and then resolved into the shape of a glowing, ghostly arm that
snaked from the padlock's keyhole. The arm ended in a fist with the index
finger pointed in the air. It waggled the finger back and forth reprovingly
for a few seconds, and then vanished.
"Protective charm's still in place, then," Ted announced happily. He

turned to Petra, who came forward, pulling something out of her jeans
pocket. James saw it was a rusted skeleton key.
"That was Gennifer's idea," Horace, the second Ravenclaw, said
proudly. "Although I had wanted it to be a different gesture."
"Would've been a nice touch," Zane agreed.
"We figured any magical types that tried to break in here wouldn't
think to try anything as boring as a key," Noah explained. "We put up
Disillusionment Charms to keep the Muggles away, but they don't come out
here anyway. It's abandoned."
Petra turned the key and pulled away the padlock. The doors of the old
barn swung open with surprising silence. "Creaky doors are for novices,"
Damien said smugly, tapping the side of his pug nose.
James peered inside. There was something large in the shadows, its
bulk blotting out the rear of the barn. He could just barely make out the
shape of it. More than anything, it looked like somebody's very antiquated
idea of a flying saucer.
"Cool!" Zane cried happily, understanding dawning on him. "Raise the
Wocket! You're right, James. There was nothing like this in The Wizard of
Oz."
"The Wizard of what?" Ted said to James out of the corner of his
mouth.
"It's a Muggle thing," James replied. "We wouldn't understand."

Frank Tottington awoke suddenly, sure he'd heard something out in the

garden. He was instantly alert and angry, throwing off his covers and
swinging his legs out of bed as if he'd fully expected such an annoyance.
"Hmwah?" his wife mumbled, raising her head sleepily.
"It's those dratted Grindle kids out in our garden," Frank announced
gruffly, jamming his feet into his tartan slippers. "Didn't I tell you they were
sneaking in at night, trampling my begonias and stealing my tomatoes?
Kids!" he spat. He shrugged into a threadbare robe. It flapped about his
shins as he clumped down the stairs and grabbed his shotgun off the hook
by the back door.
The screen door squeaked open and clapped against the outside wall as
Frank barreled out. "All right, you hooligans! Drop those tomatoes and step
out here into the light where I can see you!" He raised the shotgun in one
hand, pointing it warningly at the star-strewn sky.
A light popped on over his head, illuminating him in a blinding white
beam that seemed to hum faintly. Frank froze, his shotgun still held barrel
up, pointing up into the beam of light. Slowly, Frank raised his head,
squinting, his stubbly chin casting a long shadow down the front of his
robe. There was something hovering over him. It was hard to tell the size of
it. It was simply a round black shape, with dim lights dotting the edge. It
was turning slowly and appeared to be lowering.
Frank gasped, stumbled and nearly dropped his gun. He recovered and
backed quickly away, not taking his eyes from the gently humming object.
It lowered slowly, as if cushioned by the beam of light, and as it came to
rest, its hum deepened, throbbing.
Frank boggled at it, his knobby knees bent in a sort of alert crouch. He
chewed on his dentures fretfully.
Then, with a burst of steam and a hiss, the shape of a door appeared in
the side of the object. It was outlined in light, and the light brightened as the
door unfolded, forming a short ramp. A figure was standing framed in the
light. Frank gasped and raised his shotgun, socking it to his shoulder. There

was a blast of red light and Frank jumped. He made to pull the trigger, but
nothing happened. The trigger had changed, become a small button instead
of the comforting loop of metal. He glanced down at the shotgun, and then
held it out in front of him in shock. It wasn't his shotgun at all. It was a
small, ratty umbrella with a fake wooden handle. He'd never seen it before.
Recognizing he was in the presence of something truly otherworldly, Frank
dropped the umbrella and sank to his knees.
The figure in the doorway was small and thin. Its skin was a purplish
green, its large head was nearly featureless, with the suggestion of large,
almond-shaped eyes barely visible in the glare of light from the open
hatchway. It began to walk down the ramp toward Frank, and its footsteps
seemed unusually careful, almost awkward. It ducked slightly to clear the
doorway, then, suddenly the figure tripped on the lip of the hatch. It
stumbled forward, pinwheeling its arms, and seemed about to throw itself
upon Frank. He scrambled backwards desperately, terrified. The small
figure toppled forward, its disproportionately large head zooming towards
Frank, filling his vision.
In the moment before Frank blacked out, he was distracted only by the
rather strange fact that the figure seemed to be wearing, if nothing else, a
fairly ordinary dark green backpack slung over its shoulders. Frank fainted
with a look of rather worried confusion on his face.

James awoke blearily the next morning. He pried his eyes open, taking
in the unfamiliar shapes of his surroundings. He was in a four-poster bed in
a large, round room with a low ceiling. Sunlight beamed cheerily in,
lighting more beds, most of which were disheveled and empty. Slowly, like
owls coming in to roost, he remembered the previous night: the Sorting Hat,
standing before the portrait of the Fat Lady and not knowing the Gryffindor
password, meeting Ted, and then the rest of the Gremlins.

He sat up in bed quickly, reaching for his face. He patted his cheeks,
his brow, the shape of his eyes, and then sighed with relief. Everything
appeared to be back to normal. Something flopped onto his bed next to him,
a newspaper James didn't recognize. It was turned to an article with the
headline: 'Local Man Insists Martian Rockets Steal His Tomatoes'. James
glanced up. Noah Metzker was standing at the foot of his bed, a wry look
on his face.
"They misspelled 'Wocket' again," he said.

2. Arrival of the Alma Alerons
By the time James had dressed and made his way down to the Great
Hall for breakfast, it was nearly ten o'clock. Less than a dozen students
could be seen moving disconsolately among the detritus of the morning's
earlier rush. At the far corner of the Slytherin table, Zane sat hunched and
squinting under a beam of sunlight. Across from him was Ralph, who saw
James enter and waved him over.
As James made his way across the Hall, four or five house-elves, each
wearing large linen napkins with the Hogwarts crest embroidered on them,
circled the tables, meandering in what at first appeared to be random paths.
Occasionally, one of them would duck beneath the surface of a table and
then reappear a moment later, tossing a stray fork or half a biscuit casually
onto the mess of the table. As James passed one of the elves, it straightened,
raised its spindly arms, and then brought them swiftly down. The contents
on the table in front of him swirled together as if caught in a miniature
cyclone. With a great clattering of dishes and silverware, the corners of the
tablecloth shot upwards and twisted around the pile of breakfast debris,

creating a huge clanking bag floating improbably over the polished wood
table. The house-elf leaped from floor to bench to tabletop, and then
jumped, turning in midair and landing lightly on top of the bag. It grasped
the twisted top of the bag, using the knot as if it were a set of reins, and
turned the bag, driving it bobbingly toward the gigantic service doors in the
side of the Hall. James ducked as the bag swooped over his head.
"Phew," Zane muttered as James plopped down next to him and
reached for the last piece of toast. "These little waiters of yours may be
weird-lookin' buggers, but they know how to make a good cup of coffee."
"They're not waiters, they're house-elves. I read about them yesterday,"
Ralph said, happily munching half a sausage. The other half was speared on
the end of his fork, which he used like a pointer, indicating the elves. "They
work downstairs. They're like the elves in that kids' story. The ones that
came at night and did all the work for the cobbler."
"The what?" Zane asked over his coffee mug.
"The guy that makes shoes. He had all these shoes half finished and
just lying around, and he was about to fall over from all the work. You
know that story, don't you? So he falls asleep, and in the middle of the
night, all these little elves show up and whip out their hammers and go to
town, fixing up all the shoes for him. He wakes up and bammo, everything's
cool." Ralph bit the rest of the sausage off his fork and munched it, looking
around. "I never pictured them wearing napkins, though."
"Hey, alien-boy, I see your face is back to normal," Zane said,
examining James critically.
"What passes for it, I suppose," James replied.
"Did it hurt at all when Sabrina zapped you?"
"No," James said. "It felt weird. Really weird. But it didn't hurt. It just
went back to normal overnight."

"She must be an artist. You looked great. Webbed feet and all."
"What are you two talking about?" Ralph asked, looking back and
forth between them. They told him all about the previous night, about
raising the Wocket, and the farmer who'd fainted when James, the little
alien, had stumbled and fallen on top of him.
"I was hiding in the corner of the yard, near the shed, and I about gave
myself a hernia trying not to laugh when you tackled him. Attack of the
Martian Klutzes!" He dissolved into laughter and after a moment, James
joined him.
"Where'd they get the spaceship?" Ralph asked, bypassing the humor.
"It's just a bunch of chicken wire and papier-mâché," Zane said,
downing the last of his coffee and clapping the mug onto the table. He
raised his arm and snapped his fingers twice. "Sabrina and Horace made it
last year as part of a float for a Christmas parade down in Hogsmeade. It
used to be a giant cauldron. Now, with the help of some paint and
something Gennifer called a 'Visum-ineptio charm', it's the R.M.S. Wocket."
A very small house-elf approached Zane, frowning. "You, er, snapped,
young master?" The elf's voice was gratingly deep despite his size.
"Here you go, buddy," Zane said, handing the elf the empty coffee
mug. "Nice work. Keep it up. This is for you."
The elf looked down at the piece of paper Zane had just handed him.
He raised his eyes again. "Thank you, young master. Will there, er, be
anything else?"
Zane flapped his hand dismissively. "No, thanks. Go get some sleep or
something. You look tired."
The elf looked at Ralph, then James, who shrugged and tried to smile.

With a barely perceptible roll of the eyes, the elf tucked the five dollar bill
into his napkin and disappeared under the table.
Zane looked thoughtful. "I could get used to this."
"I don't think you're supposed to tip the house-elves," Ralph said
uncertainly.
"I don't see why not," Zane said airily, stretching. "My dad tips
everybody when he's travelling. He says it's part of the local economy. And
it fosters good service."
"And you can't just tell a house-elf to go get some sleep," James said,
suddenly realizing what had just happened.
"Why the heck not?"
"Because that's exactly what he'll have to go and do!" James said in
exasperation. He was thinking of the Potter family house-elf, a sad little pug
of an elf whose moroseness was only offset by his sheer bloodyminded
determination to do exactly what was asked of him. It wasn't that James
didn't like Kreacher. It was just that you had to learn precisely how to ask
things of Kreacher. "House-elves have to do what is asked of them by their
masters. It's just the kind of beings they are. He's probably heading back to
his cupboard, or shelf, or wherever it is he sleeps even now and trying to
work out how he's going to sleep in the middle of the morning." James
shook his head, and then realized it struck him funny. He tried not to smile,
which only made it worse. Zane saw it and pointed at him.
"Ha ha! You think it's funny, too!" he chortled.
"I can't imagine that they have to do everything we ask of them,"
Ralph said, his brow furrowed. "We're just students. We don't own the place
or anything. And we're just first years."
"You remembered the name of the spell Sabrina used to make the
Wocket look like a rocket?" James asked, turning to Zane, impressed.

"Visum-ineptio," Zane said, relishing the sound of it. "It means
something like 'eye-fooling'. If you work through the Latin, you can sort of
figure it out. Horace says it just helps people see what they think they are
going to see."
James frowned. "So when that beam of light came out of the sky onto
that farmer, he, sort of, expected to see an alien spaceship?"
"Sure. Everybody knows that a beam of light, at night, in the middle of
nowhere means the little green guys are coming."
"You're a strange guy, Zane," Ralph said, not unappreciatively.
Just then, James sensed someone standing behind him. All three of
them turned, looking up. It was the Slytherin girl from the previous night,
the one who'd led the applause for James before his Sorting. She was
looking down at him with a pleasant, vaguely indulgent expression. She
was flanked by two other Slytherins, a boy with handsome, rather sharp
features whose smile showed an awful load of teeth, and another girl, who
wasn't smiling. Heat rushed to James' cheeks as he remembered he was
sitting at the Slytherin table. Before he could think, he scrambled to get up,
a chunk of toast still sticking out of his mouth.
"No, no!" the pretty Slytherin girl said, raising her hand toward him,
palm out, stopping him in his tracks almost as if she'd used magic. "Don't
stand. I'm happy to see you feel comfortable enough to sit at the Slytherin
table with us. These are quite different times than those of your father. But I
assume too much. Mr. Deedle, would you be so kind as to introduce me to
your friend?"
Ralph coughed, clearing his throat in embarrassment. "Uh, this is my
friend, James Potter. And this is Zane. I forget his last name. Sorry." He said
the last to Zane, who shrugged, grinned at Ralph, then jumped to his feet
and reached across the table to shake the Slytherin girl's hand.

"Walker. Zane Walker. It is a distinct and heartfelt pleasure to make
your acquaintance, Ms…"
The girl's smile broadened a tiny bit and she tilted her head, still
looking at Ralph.
"Oh!" Ralph said, jumping a bit. "Yes. This is, um, Tabitha Corsica.
She's a prefect in Slytherin House, a sixth year, I think. Captain of the
Slytherin Quidditch Team. And the debate team. And, um… she has a really
cool broom." Having exhausted himself of everything he could think of to
say about her, Ralph slumped as if exhausted.
Tabitha finally accepted Zane's hand, holding it lightly, then releasing
it. "I'm glad to have officially made your acquaintances. Mr. Potter, or may
I call you James?" she said, turning to him. Her voice was like silver bells
and velvet, lower than James' own, but rather beautiful. He realized she'd
asked him a question, shook himself, and answered.
"Yeah. Sure. James."
"And I'd be delighted if you'd call me Tabitha," she said, smiling as if
this gesture of familiarity pleased her immensely. "I'd just like to say, on
behalf of Slytherin House, that we are glad you are among us, and we hope
sincerely that any remaining," she glanced upwards with her eyes,
considering, "prejudices will be left in the past, where they forever belong."
She turned left and right, encompassing the two Slytherins with her. "We all
have nothing but the highest respect and, yes, regard for you and your
father. Can we, I hope, expect to all be friends?"
The boy on Tabitha's right continued to smile down at James. The girl
on her left studied a spot on the table somewhere between them, her face
expressionless.
"S-sure. Friends. Of course," James stammered. The silence of the rest
of the hall seemed a huge thing. It swallowed his voice, made it tiny.

Tabitha's smile warmed even further. Her green eyes twinkled. "I'm
pleased that you agree. And now we will leave you to finish your, er,
breakfasts. Tom? Philia?"
The three turned on the spot and swept away down the aisle.
"What did you just agree to?" Ralph asked as they stood and followed
the Slytherins at a careful distance.
"I think James here has either just made a gorgeous friend or a sultry
enemy," Zane said, watching the swoop and drape of Tabitha's robes as she
turned the corner. "I can't say for sure which I am rooting for."
James was thinking hard. Things certainly had changed a lot since
Dad's and Mum's day. He just couldn't quite tell if they were, in fact, better.

The three of them spent the rest of the morning exploring the school
grounds. They visited the Quidditch pitch, which looked to Zane and James
remarkably different in the bright, hazy sunlight than it had in the dark.
Zane's mouth fell open when he saw a group of older students playing a
scratch three-onthree Quidditch match. The players swooped in and out of
formations, barely missing each other, calling out plays and occasional
swear words.
"Brutal!" Zane proclaimed happily as one of the players walloped a
Bludger at an opposing player's head, knocking him into a barrel roll around
his broomstick. "And I've been to a rugby match."
They passed Hagrid's cottage, which looked empty and dark, with no
smoke in the chimney and the door shut tight. Shortly after, they ran into
Ted Lupin and Noah Metzker, who led them to the edge of the Forbidden

Forest. A gigantic, ancient-looking willow tree dominated the edge of the
clearing. Ted held out his arm, stopping Ralph as he moved toward it.
"Close enough, mate," he said. "Watch this."
Ted loosened the mouth of a large laundry bag he'd been dragging
behind him. Out of it, he produced an object shaped roughly like a fourlegged animal with wings and a beak. It was covered in multicolored scraps
of paper whose colors shifted and swam in the light breeze.
"No! It's a piñata!" Zane exclaimed. "In the shape of a… a… don't tell
me! A… sphinxoraptor!"
"It's a hippogriff," James said, laughing.
"I like his name better," Ralph said.
"Me too!" Noah added.
"Silence!" said Ted, raising his hand. He lifted the piñata in his other
hand, hefted it, and then threw it as hard as he could into the curtain of
branches hanging from the willow. It vanished into the dense foliage, and
for a moment, nothing else happened. Then there was a rustle among the
whiplike branches. They writhed, as if something large was moving beneath
them. Suddenly, the tree exploded into a violent flurry of motion. Its
branches flailed wildly, slapping, groaning, and creaking. The noise it made
was like a very localized windstorm. After a few seconds, the piñata was
caught up visibly in the branches. The tree embraced it in dozens of coiling,
angry whips, and then all of the branches pulled at once. It was as if the
piñata had been dropped into a blender. Shreds of multicolored paper and
wizard candy exploded as the ballistics charm core of the piñata triggered.
Confetti and candies peppered the tree and the surrounding clearing. The
tree thrashed in apparent annoyance at the sudden colorful mess in its
branches, then seemed to give up. It settled into its original shape.
Ted and Noah laughed uproariously. "Behold the death of the
Sphinxoraptor!" Noah proclaimed. James had heard about the Whomping

Willow, but was still impressed by both its violence and the other
Gryffindors' casualness about it. Zane and Ralph simply stared, mouths
agape. Without looking, Ralph plucked an Every Flavor Bean out of his hair
and stuck it in his mouth. He chewed meditatively for a moment, and then
glanced at James. "Tastes like taco! Cool!"
James separated himself from the group a little later and made his way
up the stairs to the landing outside the Gryffindor common room.
"Password," the Fat Lady sang out as he approached.
"Genisolaris," he replied, hoping it hadn't changed already.
"Proceed," the painting answered, swinging open.
The common room was empty, the fireplace cold. James ascended to
the sleeping chamber and headed for his bed. He was already feeling a
warm sense of belonging in this room, even in its dozing, midday
emptiness. The beds had been neatly made. Nobby, James' huge, brown
barn owl, was sleeping in his cage with his head tucked under his wing.
James flopped onto the bed, took a sheaf of parchment and a quill, and
began to write, being careful not to spill ink onto the blankets.

Dear Mum and Dad,
Arrived last night with no problems. Met some cool new friends
so far. Ralph turned out to be a Slytherin, which I'd have never
guessed. Zane is a Ravenclaw, and he's about as crazy as Uncle
George. They're both Muggle-born, so I'm learning a lot even though
classes haven't started yet. With their help, Muggle Studies should be a
breeze. Ted showed us the Whomping Willow, but we didn't get too
close, Mum. Some new teachers here. Saw Neville yesterday, but didn't
have a chance to give him your greeting. Oh, and a delegation of
American wizards and such is arriving later today. Should be

interesting since Zane is from the States himself. Long story. More
later.
Your son,
James
P.S. I'm a Gryffindor!
James smiled proudly as he folded and sealed the letter. He'd debated
about the best way to announce his house to Mum and Dad (and everybody
else, since they'd all be waiting to hear about it from his parents), and had
decided that just saying it straight up would be best. Anything else would
have seemed either too casual or unnecessarily grand.
"Hey, Nobby," James whispered. The bird raised its head halfway,
revealing one great orange eye. "Got a message for you to deliver. How
about a nice fly home, hmm?"
Nobby stretched, ruffled his feathers so that he seemed to double in
size for a moment, and then stuck out his leg. James opened Nobby's cage
and attached the letter. The owl sidled carefully to the window, unfolded his
wings, hunched, and then launched himself easily into the bright daylight
beyond the window. James, feeling almost absurdly happy, watched until
Nobby was a speck between the distant blue mountain peaks. Whistling, he
turned and ran noisily down the stairs.
He had lunch at the Gryffindor table in the Great Hall and then met
up afterwards with Zane and Ralph as the rest of the school began to
assemble in the main courtyard. A small student orchestra had assembled to
play the American national anthem upon the arrival of the United States
delegation. The cacophony as they tuned their instruments was deafening.
Zane commented with conviction that it was the first time he'd ever heard
The Star-Spangled Banner played on bagpipes and accordion. Students
milled and congregated, filling the courtyard. Finally, Professor
Longbottom and another professor who James didn't know yet began to
move among the crowd, pressing the students into orderly arrangements

along the walls. James, Zane, and Ralph found themselves near the great
front gates, watching for the arrival of the Americans with growing
anticipation. James remembered the stories his parents had told of the
arrival of the Beauxbatons and Durmstrang delegations back when the
Triwizard Tournament had been held at Hogwarts: the gigantic horses and
flying carriage of the one and the mysterious submarine galleon of the
other. He couldn't help wondering how the Americans might choose to
arrive.
The gathered throng watched and waited, voices hushed. The student
orchestra stood on a small tiered grandstand, instruments held at the ready,
blinking in the hazy afternoon sunlight. Headmistress McGonagall and the
rest of the teaching staff stood, watching the sky, arranged along the portico
which led into the main hall.
Finally, someone pointed and voices called out. All eyes turned,
straining. James squinted into the golden haze over the distant mountain
peaks. A dot resolved, growing larger as it approached. As he watched, two
more became visible, closely following the first. Sounds drifted into the
courtyard, apparently coming from the approaching objects. James glanced
at Zane, who shrugged, obviously mystified. The sound was a low, droning
roar, growing quickly louder. The objects must have been moving at a great
speed because they were already swooping down, taking on shape as they
approached the courtyard. The sound of them became lower, vibrating, a
beating thrum as of giant insect wings. James watched as the objects slowed
appreciably, lowering to meet their shadows on the courtyard lawn.
"Cool!" Zane called out over the sound of them. "They're cars!"
James had heard about his grandfather Weasley's enchanted Ford
Anglia, flown once by his dad and Uncle Ron to Hogwarts, where it took
refuge in the Forbidden Forest and was never seen again. These weren't like
that at all. One difference was that, unlike the photos James had seen of the
Anglia, these cars were shiny and immaculate, with chrome accents
throwing darts of sunlight all around the courtyard. The other difference,
which produced a sustained sigh of appreciation from the gathered
Hogwartians, was the wings which folded out of the rear half of each

vehicle. They were exactly like giant insect wings, thrumming loudly,
catching the sunlight in blurring rainbow-colored fans.
"That's a Dodge Hornet!" Zane called, pointing at the first one as it
landed. Its front wheels touched down first and rolled slightly forward as
the rest of the car settled behind them. It had two doors, and was a fierce
yellow color, with long wasplike wings. The second, according to Zane,
who seemed to be an expert on the subject, was a Stutz Dragonfly. It was
bottle-green, low and long, with swooping fenders and chrome pipes
curling from its tapered hood. Its wings were also long and tapered, making
a deep, beating drone James could feel in his chest. Finally, the last one
landed, and James didn't need Zane to identify it. Even he knew what a
Volkswagen Beetle was. Its bulbous body rocked back and forth as the
flaming red car descended, its stubby wings thrumming underneath two
hard outer wings which were unfolded from the back of the car just like a
real beetle. It settled onto its wheels as if they were landing gear, and the
wings stopped thrumming, folded delicately, and disappeared beneath the
hard outer wings, which closed over them.
The Hogwartians erupted into a great, exhilarated cheer at the same
moment that the orchestra began to play the anthem. Behind James, a girl's
voice scoffed over the noise, "Americans and their machines."
Zane turned to her. "That last one's German. I'd have thought you'd
known that." He grinned at her, then turned away, enjoying the applause.
As the Hogwarts band plodded its way through the anthem, the doors
of the cars opened and the American delegation began to emerge. Three
identically dressed adult wizards appeared first, one from each car. They
wore dark, thigh-length grey-green cloaks, black vests over high white
collars, and loose grey pants that gathered just above their white socks and
shiny black shoes. They stood for half a minute, blinking and frowning
about them as if surveying the crowd. Apparently satisfied with the security
level of the courtyard, the men stepped away from the open doors of each
vehicle and assumed guard positions nearby. James could see a bit into the
open door of the nearest car, the Beetle, and wasn't surprised at the

disproportionately large and sumptuous interior. Figures moved inside, and
then the view was blocked as they began to climb out of the car.
The number of figures that emerged from the cars surprised even
James, who'd camped inside wizard tents on many occasions and knew how
flexible wizard spaces could be. Porters in burgundy cloaks moved to the
boots of each vehicle, producing small flat carts and unloading innumerable
trunks and cases onto them, forming dizzying, swaying piles. Young
wizards and witches in surprisingly casual robes, some even wearing jeans
and sunglasses, began to fill the center of the courtyard. Official-looking
adult witches and wizards followed, their light grey cloaks and charcoal
tunics identifying them as the members of the American Department of
Magical Administration. They gravitated, smiling, hands outstretched,
toward the portico, where Headmistress McGonagall and the staff were
descending to meet them.
The last to emerge from the cars were also adults, although their
variety of dress and ages implied they were neither department officials nor
students. James guessed these were the teachers of Alma Aleron, the
American wizarding school. There appeared to be one per car. The one
nearest, climbing from the Beetle, was as stout as a barrel, with long grey
hair parted to frame a pleasant, blocky face. He wore tiny, square glasses
and smiled with an air of vaguely arrogant benevolence at the Hogwartians.
Something about him rang a faint bell in James' memory, but he couldn't
quite place it. James turned, looking for the second professor, and found
him emerging from the Stutz Dragonfly. He was very tall, white-haired,
with a long, grey face, unsmiling and severe. He surveyed the crowd, his
bushy black eyebrows working on the slab of his forehead like a pair of
caterpillars. A porter appeared next to him and held out a black leather case.
Without looking, the professor grasped the handles of the case in a great
knobby-knuckled hand and moved forward, approaching the portico like a
ship under full sail.
"I'm making it my New Year's resolution to avoid any classes with that
guy," Zane said gravely. Ralph and James nodded.

James found the third professor from Alma Aleron just as she was
climbing slowly, imperiously out of the Dodge Hornet. She raised herself to
her full height and turned her head slowly, as if examining each face in the
crowd. James gasped, and without thinking, ducked down behind Ralph's
bulky form as her gaze moved over the crowd. Carefully, he peeked over
Ralph's shoulder.
"What're you doing?" Ralph asked, straining to see James out of the
corner of his eye.
James squinted through the crowd over Ralph's shoulder. The woman
wasn't looking at him at all. She didn't appear to be looking at anything,
precisely, despite the scrutinizing expression on her face. "That tall lady
over there. The one with the scarf tied down over her head. I saw her the
other night on the lake!"
Zane stood on tiptoe. "The one over there that looks like a gypsy
mummy?"
"Yeah," James said, suddenly feeling foolish. The scarfed lady looked
a lot older than he
remembered. Her eyes were a dull grey, her dark face bony and lined. A
porter handed her a large wooden cane and she accepted it with a nod. She
began to make her way across the crowded courtyard slowly, tapping the
cane ahead of her as if feeling her way.
"Looks to me like she's blind as the proverbial bat," Zane said
doubtfully. "Maybe it was an alligator you saw in the lake instead of her.
It'd be an easy mistake."
"You guys know who that other teacher is?" Ralph suddenly
interjected in a low, awed voice, indicating the stout man in the square
spectacles. "That's…! That's…! He's the five… no! Wait, the fifty…!" he
babbled.
Zane looked at the portico, frowning. "The little dude with the John

Lennon glasses and the weird little ruffled collar?"
"Yes!" Ralph rasped excitedly, beckoning to Zane as if trying to pull
the man's name out of his head. "That's… oh, whossname! He's money!"
"How surprisingly hip of you to say so, Ralph," Zane said, slapping
Ralph on the back.
Just then, Professor McGonagall touched her wand to her throat and
spoke, magnifying her voice so that it echoed throughout the courtyard.
"Students, faculty and staff of Hogwarts, please join me in welcoming the
representatives of Alma Aleron and the United States Department of
Magical Administration."
Another burst of perfunctory applause filled the courtyard. Someone in
the student orchestra, mistaking the announcement as a cue, began to play
the American anthem again. Three or four other musicians joined in,
hurriedly trying to catch up, before they were silenced by Professor
Flitwick's frantic waving.
"Esteemed guests of Hogwarts," the Headmistress continued, nodding
at the crowd of newcomers, "thank you for joining us. We all look greatly
forward to a year of mutual learning and cultural exchange with such longstanding and steadfast allies as our friends from the United States. And
now, representatives from Alma Aleron, if you would be so kind as to step
forward so that we may introduce you to your new pupils."
James assumed that the tall professor with the steely features would be
the leader, but this was not so. The stout wizard with the square glasses
approached the portico and bowed gallantly to the Headmistress. He turned
and addressed the crowd without using his wand, his clear tenor voice
carrying expertly, as if speaking in public was something he was quite used
to.
"Students of Hogwarts, faculty and friends, thank you for such a warm
welcome. We've come to expect no less, though I assure you that we require

nothing so grand." He smiled and winked to the crowd. "We are thrilled to
be a part of your schooling this year, and let me assure you that the learning
will certainly go both ways. I could, at this point, stand up here in the sun
and regale you with endlessly impressive anecdotes of all the assorted
similarities and differences between the European and American magical
worlds, and I promise that such a diatribe would be, of course, endlessly
engaging…" Again, the smile and the feeling of a mutual, inside joke. "But,
as I can see that my own delegation of students are eager to rid themselves
as quickly as possible of our administration for the afternoon, I can only
assume that the same is true of our new Hogwarts friends. Thus, I shall
merely provide the necessary introductions so that you may know who will
be teaching what, and then release you all to your assorted devices."
"I like this guy already," James heard Ted say from somewhere behind
him.
"In no particular order," the stout wizard called out, "let me introduce
Mr. Theodore Hirshall Jackson, Professor of Technomancy and Applied
Magic. He is also a three-star general in the Salem-Dirgus Free Militia, so
I'd advise you all to call him 'sir' as many times as possible whenever you
address him."
Professor Jackson's face was as impassive as granite, as if he had long
since grown impervious to his associate's joking. He bowed slowly and
gracefully, his chin raised and his dark eyes hovering somewhere over the
crowd.
"Next to him," the stout professor continued, gesturing expansively
with one arm, "Professor of Divination, Advanced Enchantments, and
Remote Parapsychology, Desdemona Delacroix. She also makes a rather, er,
intimidatingly delicious gumbo, although you'll consider yourselves very
fortunate indeed if you are allowed to taste it."
The dark woman with the scarf over her hair smiled at the speaker, and
the smile transformed her face from that of a skeletal hag to something
resembling a desiccated but pleasantly mischievous grandmother. She
turned and her blind eyes roved, unfocussed, over the crowd, crinkling as

she smiled. James wondered how he could have thought that blind, milky
gaze had been the same one he'd seen piercing him through the darkness
across the lake the evening before. Besides, she'd just arrived, he reasoned.
She couldn't even have been there the night before.
"And finally," the stout professor said, "last and, quite possibly, least,
allow me to introduce myself. Your new Defense Against the Dark Arts
teacher, head of the Alma Aleron debate team, and unofficial, but very
willing, wizard chess contender, Benjamin Amadeus Franklyn, at your
service." He bowed deeply, arms wide, his stringy grey hair drooping.
"That's who I was trying to think of!" Ralph whispered harshly. "He's
on your money, you goon!" He elbowed Zane in the ribs, nearly knocking
the smaller boy off his feet.

Minutes later, James, Zane, and Ralph were pounding up the stairs
toward the Ravenclaw common room.
"Benjamin Franklin?" Zane repeated disbelievingly. "That can't be the
original Ben Franklin. He'd be…" He thought for a moment, frowning.
"Well, I don't know how old, but he'd be really, really old. Crazy old. Older
than McGonagall even. No way."
Ralph wheezed, trying to keep up. "I'm telling you, I think these
wizard types--us wizard types--have ways of sticking around for a long
time. It's not all that surprising when you think about it. Ben Franklin
almost seems like a wizard when you read about him in the Muggle history
books. I mean, the guy caught lightning with a key on a kite string."
James was thoughtful. "I remember my Aunt Hermione telling me
about some old wizard they learned about in their first year. Nicholas
Flannel or something. He'd made a sort of stone that made him live forever,

or close to it. Of course, it was the sort of thing that always seemed to be
falling into the wrong hands, so eventually he destroyed it and ended up
dying just like everybody else. Still, I think there probably are lots of ways
for witches and wizards to prolong life for a long time, even without
Flannel's stone."
"Maybe you should get his autograph on one of your hundred dollar
bills," Ralph mused to Zane.
"I don't have any hundreds. I gave my last five to that elf doorman
downstairs. It was all I had."
"He wasn't a doorman!" James tried again to convince Zane.
"Well? He got the door for us," Zane said placidly.
"Ralph knocked him over when he shoved it open! He wasn't trying to
open it for us!"
"Well, I'm out of money anyway. I just hope the service doesn't suffer."
Zane stopped in front of the door to the Ravenclaw common room.
The eagle door knocker spoke in a high, trilling voice. "What is the
significance of the hat in magical mastery?"
"Ahh, sheesh, these are supposed to be the easy ones," Zane
complained.
"Are you sure it's all right for us to go in there?" Ralph said, shuffling
his feet. "What're the rules for hanging out in common rooms other than
your own?"
"There aren't any rules about it that I know of," James said. "I just
don't think people do it much." This didn't seem to ease Ralph's mind. He
looked up and down the corridor fretfully.
"The hat… the hat…," Zane mumbled, staring at his shoes. "Hat, hat,

hat. Rabbit out of a hat. You pull things out of a hat. It's probably like a
metaphor or something. You wear a hat on your head… your brain's in your
head, under the hat. Ummm…"
He snapped his fingers and looked up at the eagle door knocker. "You
can't pull anything out of a hat that you haven't already put in your head?"
"Crude, but close enough," the door knocker replied. The door clicked
and swung open.
"Wow!" James said, following Zane into the common room. "And your
parents are Muggles?"
"Well, like I said, my dad makes movies, and my mom has E.S.P.
about anything I try to sneak past her, so I assume I am unusually prepared
for the magical world," Zane said in an offhand manner. "So this is the
Ravenclaw common room. Not an electric light or a Coke machine in sight.
We do have a really cool statue, though, and a talking fireplace. Saw my
dad in it last night. He's adapting to all of this a little too well, if you ask
me."
Zane toured them through the Ravenclaw rooms, apparently making
up details whenever he didn't know them. Ralph and Zane tried to teach
James how to play gin rummy with a deck of Muggle playing cards, but
James couldn't get interested in King, Queen and Jack cards that didn't
actually attack one another. When they got bored, Ralph took them to the
Slytherin common room, leading them through a maze of dark, torch-lit
cellar passages. They stopped at a large door that dominated the end of a
corridor. Set in the middle of the door was a brass sculpture of a coiling
snake, its wedge-shaped head protruding menacingly, open-mouthed.
"Oh, yeah," Ralph muttered. He shook back his sleeve, revealing a
new ring on his right hand. The ring was set with a large green emerald,
shaped like an eye with a slit pupil. Ralph pressed it carefully into one of
the snake's eye sockets. The other socket glared to life, glowing green.
"Who sssseeks entry?" the snake's head said in a thin, hissing voice.

"Me. Ralph Deedle. Slytherin, first year."
The glowing green eye flicked over James and Zane. "And thessssse?"
"My friends. I, uh, I can vouch for them."
The glowing eye studied Zane then James for an uncomfortably long
time, and then finally winked out. A series of complicated ratchets, clicks,
and clanks came from within the door. It swung ponderously open.
The Slytherin rooms occupied a large, gothic space carved from
beneath the lake. Thick, stainedglass windows in the vaulted ceilings
looked up through the depths of the lake, making the filtered sunlight
flicker greenly on the glass portraits of Salazar Slytherin and his progeny.
Even Ralph seemed jumpy as he showed them around. Only a few other
students were in the common room, draped over the furnishings with
extravagant indolence. They followed Zane and James with their eyes,
smiling cryptically, but apparently without malice. Ralph stiffly mumbled
greetings.
The Slytherin sleeping quarters felt to James like someplace a very
tasteful and wealthy pirate captain might sleep. The room was wide, with a
sunken floor and low ceilings hung with gargoyle head lanterns. The large
beds were mahogany with great square pillars at each corner. The Slytherin
House crest hung on curtains at the end of each bed. The three boys
clambered onto Ralph's immaculately made bed.
"These guys are pretty hardcore," Ralph admitted in a low voice,
indicating the owners of the other beds. "To tell you the truth, I feel a little
out of place here. I like the Ravenclaw rooms better."
"I don't know," Zane said, looking around the room admiringly. "They
sure have a flair for decorating. Although it'd be hard to sleep with all those
stuffed animal heads on the walls. Is that one a dragon?"
"Yes," Ralph replied, his voice strained and terse. "These guys bring

them from their houses. They have families that actually go out dragon
hunting."
James frowned. "I thought dragon hunting was illegal."
"Yeah," Ralph whispered severely. "That's the thing, isn't it? These
guys' families have hunting preserves where they can go shoot just about
anything! That over there is the skull of a unicorn. Still has the horn on it,
although they said it isn't the real horn. The real horn is too valuable for
magical uses to leave hanging on the wall. And that thing back behind
Tom's bed is a house-elf head! They put them on the wall when they knock
'em off! And I swear it looks at me sometimes!" Ralph shuddered, and then
seemed to decide he'd said too much. He pressed his mouth into a thin line
and looked from James to Zane and back.
"Yeah, it is pretty creepy," James admitted, deciding not to tell Ralph
any of the things he'd heard about how some of the Slytherin families lived.
"Still, I expect it's mostly just for show."
"What's that?" Zane said suddenly, pouncing forward on the bed. "Is
that a GameDeck? It is! And you've got the wireless uplink for online
competition and everything!" He rummaged into a duffle bag at the end of
Ralph's bed, pulling out a small, black box about the size and shape of the
deck of cards they'd been playing with earlier. It had a tiny screen set into
the front, with a mind-boggling array of buttons beneath it. "What games do
you have for it? Do you have Armageddon Master Three?"
"No!" Ralph rasped, grabbing the tiny machine away from Zane. "And
don't let anybody else see this thing! They flip out about stuff like this."
Zane was incredulous. "What? Why?"
"How should I know? What's the deal with wizards and electronic
stuff?" Ralph addressed the question to James, who frowned and shrugged.
"I don't know. Mostly, we just don't need it. Electronic stuff, like

computers and phones, are just Muggle things. We do what we need to do
with magic, I guess."
Ralph was shaking his head. "That's not how these guys act about it.
They talked about it like I'd brought something nasty to school with me.
Told me if I meant to be a real Slytherin, I needed to abandon all my false
magic and machines."
"False magic?" Zane asked, glancing at James.
"Yeah," he sighed, "that's what some wizarding families think of
Muggle electronics and machines. They say those things are just cheap
knockoffs of what real wizards do. They think any wizards who use Muggle
machines are traitors to their magical heritage or something."
"Yeah, that's pretty much what they told me," Ralph nodded. "They
were, like, passionate about it! I hid my stuff right away. I figure I'll give it
all to Dad at the next break."
Zane made a low whistle. "I'll bet your orthodox wizard types didn't
like seeing my guys landing today in those hunks of rolling iron. You can't
get much more machine-y than a Dodge Hornet."
James considered this. "Yeah, they might not like it very much, but
there's a difference between electronics and clockwork. They think of cars
as just a bunch of cogs and pistons. They aren't so much false magic as just
unnecessarily complicated tools. It's the computers and stuff they really
hate."
"I'll say," Ralph breathed, looking down at his GameDeck, and then
stuffing it back into his duffle bag. He sighed. "Let's get out of here.
Dinner's soon and I'm starved."
"Are you ever full, Ralph?" Zane asked as they jumped off the bed.
"I'm big-boned," Ralph said automatically, as if he'd said it many times
before. "It's a glandular problem. Shut up."

"Just asking," Zane said, raising his hands. "Frankly, around here, I like
the idea of having a friend who is the size of a dumpster."
At dinner, the three of them sat together at the Gryffindor table. James
was a little worried about it until Ted appeared and slapped Zane on the
back affectionately. "Our little Ravenclaw imp. How's life in the second
best house on campus?" After that, James noticed that Zane and Ralph
weren't the only students to sit down at other House tables.
After dinner, they discussed the following day's schedules. Zane would
be joining James for his Technomancy class with Professor Jackson, and
Ralph would be with James in Defense Against the Dark Arts. The boys
explored the library, hovering outside the Restricted Section for a while
until the librarian shooed them away with a stern warning. Finally, they said
their goodnights and went their different ways.
"See you tomorrow with Professor Stonewall!" Zane, who had a
unique predisposition for nicknaming teachers, called as he climbed the
staircase to the Ravenclaw common room.
Entering his own room, James found Ted seated on the couch with his
arm slung casually around Petra. Sabrina and Damien were at a nearby
table, arguing quietly over some papers spread on the table between them.
"Ready for school tomorrow, Junior?" Ted piped as James joined them.
"Yeah! I think so."
"You'll do fine," Ted said reassuringly. "First year is mostly wandpractice and theory. Wait until you get to fourth year and Professor
Trelawney."
"At least we get to dilute Trelawney with that new bag of bones from
the States," Petra said.
James raised his eyebrows. "How do you mean?"

Ted answered, "Looks like they'll be dividing the class. Last year it
was Trelawney and Firenze, the centaur, but he's gone this year, moved
back with the valley centaurs in Greyhaven. So this year, it's Trelawney and
the voodoo queen, Madame Delacroix."
"I imagine they'll be best of friends," Damien announced
philosophically. "Like peas in a pod. Like powdered dragon eggshell and
Mandrake sap."
James blinked, but before he could ask Damien what he meant, Ted
shook his head, smiling wickedly. "Use your imagination, mate."
A few minutes later, James detached himself from the group and
climbed up to the sleeping quarters. He felt a pleasant mix of nervousness
and excitement about the next day. For a moment, he simply stood in the
moonlit room, soaking up the thrill of being there, being a Gryffindor, and
starting his studies. He had a momentary dizzying sense of the adventures
and challenges he'd be facing in the coming years, and in that moment, he
wished he could jump ahead and take them all on at once.
Noah appeared from the tiny washroom. He glanced at James before
flinging himself onto his bed. "We all feel that way sometimes," he said, as
if he'd read James' thoughts. "Wait until tomorrow evening and you'll be
back to normal. A good dose of lectures and homework does it to the best
of us." And he blew out the candle by his bed.

3. The Ghost and the Intruder
James awoke early. The room was silent but for the breathing of his
fellow Gryffindors and the whistling snore of Noah several beds away. The
light in the room was only a few shades above night, a sort of pearly rose
color. James tried to go back to sleep, but his mind was too full of all the
unknowns that he was sure to experience in the next twelve hours. After a
few minutes, he swung his feet out of bed and began to dress.
The halls of Hogwarts, while relatively quiet and empty, seemed busy
in a completely different way this early in the morning. Dewy coolness and
morning shadows filled the spaces, but there was a hint of busy commotion
just out of sight behind unmarked doors down flights of narrow steps. As
James moved among the corridors and passed empty classrooms that would
later be filled with activity, he caught secondhand clues of the house-elf

activity that thrived in the morning hours: a bucket and mop, still dripping,
propped open a bathroom door; the scent of baking bread and the clatter of
pots and pans drifted up a short flight of stairs; a row of windows stood
with tapestries draped carefully out of them for airing.
James meandered to the Great Hall, but found it quiet and empty, the
ceiling glowing a pale rose as the sky outside absorbed the light of the
sunrise. James blinked and looked again. Something was moving among the
semi-transparent rafters and beams. A grey shape flitted, humming a rather
annoying little tune. James watched, trying to make out what it was. It
seemed to be a small, fat man-shape with a gleefully impish expression of
concentration. Against all probability, the figure seemed to be very carefully
balancing tiny objects on the edges of some of the rafters. James noticed
that the balanced objects were directly above the House tables, arranged at
intervals and balanced so delicately as to fall at the slightest breeze.
"Fi!" the figure suddenly cried, making James jump. It had seen him. It
swooped down upon him so swiftly that James almost dropped his books.
"Who spies on the spy when he's planning his morning funnies!?" the figure
sang, annoyance and glee mingled in its voice.
"Oh," James said, sighing. "I know you. Dad and Mum told me about
you. Peeves."
"And I know you, little crumpet!" Peeves announced merrily, looping
around James. "Little Potter boy, James! Oooo! Sneaking about early-early,
unlike your daddy! He preferred the night, he did! Seeking a spot of
breakfast, is we? Oh, so sorry, all the little elfy-welfies are still cooking it
up in the basements. Hogwarts belongs only to Peeves this early. Care for a
Peruvian ballistic bean instead?"
Peeves shoved a wispy arm toward James' face. The tiny objects filling
Peeves' hand looked like dried green kidney beans.
"No! Thanks! I'll… I'll be off, then." James hooked a thumb over his
shoulder and began to back away.

"Suresy, are we? Mmm! Beans, beans, the musical fruit!" Peeves
dismissed James and swooped back up to the rafters again. "The more I
plant, the more to toot! Tooty fruits in little Potter's pumpkin juice,
perhaps!" he cackled merrily.
James wandered until he was out of earshot of Peeves' singing. After a
few minutes, he found himself on a long, pillared balcony overlooking the
school grounds. Mist arose from the lake in a great golden cloud, burning
off in the sun. James leaned against a railing, soaking up the happiness and
excitement of beginning his first day.
Something moved in the stillness. James glanced toward it. It had
been at the edge of the forest, near Hagrid's cabin. Perhaps Hagrid was
back. James studied the cabin. There was still no smoke in the chimney.
The yard looked untended and overgrown. James frowned slightly. Why
wasn't Hagrid back yet? He knew that the half-giant had a notorious soft
spot for beasts and monsters, and he worried, along with his parents, that
this would eventually be his undoing. Perhaps the alliance with the giants,
tentative at the best of times, had fallen apart. Perhaps they had attacked
Hagrid and Grawp or imprisoned them somehow. Perhaps-The movement caught James' eye again. Just behind the stack of
firewood by Hagrid's cabin, there was a flicker of color and a flash. James
squinted, leaning as far over the balcony railing as he could. There it was
again. A head peered over the firewood. In the distance, James could only
see that it was a man about his dad's age. The face seemed to study the
grounds, and then the man stood slowly and raised a camera. The flash
came again as the man took a picture of the castle.
James was about to go find someone to tell about this strange sight, a
teacher or even a house-elf, when something flew suddenly past him. James
jumped aside, dropping his books for certain this time. The figure was
white, semi-transparent, and utterly silent. It streamed past him and
swooped down to the ground below, aiming for the interloper with the
camera. The ghostly form was indistinct in the brightening sunlight, but the

interloper saw it coming as if he had expected it. The man let out a little
shriek of fear, but didn't run, despite the fact that at least part of him seemed
to want to. Jerkily, he raised the camera again and snapped off a few quick
shots of the ghostly form as it streaked towards him. Finally, just as the
form was about to overtake him, the man spun on his heels and sprinted
clumsily into the perimeter of the woods, disappearing into the darkness
within. The ghost pulled up at the edge of the woods like a dog on the end
of its leash. It peered in, then prowled back and forth restlessly. After a
minute, it turned and began to return to the castle. As James watched, it
began to take on a somewhat more solid shape. By the time the figure had
returned to the ground in front of the balcony, it looked like a young man.
The ghostly man walked with a determined, if rather dejected gait, head
down. Then he glanced up, saw James, and stopped. There was a long
moment of perfect stillness in which the man stared up at James, his
transparent face expressionless. Then the figure simply evaporated, quickly
and completely.
James stared at the place where the figure had been. He knew he hadn't
imagined it. Ghosts were as much a part of Hogwarts as wands and moving
paintings. He'd seen the Ravenclaw House ghost, the Grey Lady, only the
day before, gliding down a corridor and looking quaintly morose. He was
looking forward to meeting Nearly Headless Nick, the Gryffindor House
ghost. But this ghost was new to him. Of course, his parents couldn't have
told him about every little detail of life at Hogwarts. A great deal of it was
new to him. Still, the figure nagged at him, as did the sight of the man with
the camera, sneaking about and taking pictures. Could he have been from
one of the wizarding tabloids? Not The Quibbler, of course. James knew the
people who ran that publication, and they wouldn't be interested in the
snoozing morning life of Hogwarts. Still, there were plenty of muck-raking
wizarding publications always interested in the supposed dirty little secrets
of Hogwarts, the Ministry, and even James' dad.
Heading back toward the common room where he hoped to find Ted or
one of the Gremlins before breakfast, James remembered that he hadn't yet
given his parents' greetings to Professor Longbottom. He determined to do
so at breakfast, and to use the opportunity to ask Neville about the ghost
and the man with the camera.

In the Great Hall, however, Neville was nowhere to be seen. The long
tables were now crowded with students in their school robes.
"So you saw some guy snapping pictures out on the grounds?" Ralph
asked around a mouthful of French toast. "What's the big deal about that?"
"I'm more interested in the ghost," Zane said determinedly. "I wonder
how he was killed. Do ghosts only come back when they've been killed in
some really messy way?"
James shrugged. "I don't know. Ask one of the older guys. For that
matter, ask Nick when you see him next."
"Nearly Headless Nick?" Sabrina said from further down the table.
"Yeah. Where's he at? We have a question for him."
"Gone," Sabrina said, shaking her head so that the quill in her hair
wobbled. "He hasn't been with us since our first year. Finally made it into
the Headless Hunt after all those years. We had a party for him, and then off
he went. He never came back. Must have been the thing he needed to
finally move on. Good for him, too. But still."
"The Headless…" Ralph queried tentatively, as if he wasn't sure he
wanted clarification.
"He never came back?" James repeated. "But he was the Gryffindor
House ghost! Who's our ghost now?"
Sabrina shook her head again. "Don't have one at the moment. Some of
us thought it'd be old Dumbledore, but no luck."
"But…," James said, but didn't know how to continue. Every house
had a ghost, right? He thought of the wispy shape that had turned into the
silent young man on the front lawn.

"Mail call!" Zane called. Everyone looked up as owls began to swoop
in through the high windows. The air was suddenly full of flapping wings
and dropping letters and packages. James' eyes widened as he recalled
Peeves' strange project from earlier that morning. Before he could say
anything, the first loud pop rang out and a girl screamed in surprise and
anger. She stood up from a nearby table, her robe spattered with yellow
gobbets.
"My eggs blew up!" she exclaimed.
More pops erupted throughout the hall as the owls banked among the
rafters. Zane and Ralph looked around wildly, trying to see what was going
on.
"Time to go, mates!" James called, trying not to laugh. As he spoke, a
Peruvian ballistic bean dropped from a rafter nearby, landing in a half
empty cup and exploding with a loud pop. Juice erupted out of the cup like
a tiny volcano. As James, Zane, and Ralph ran out of the milling chaos,
Peeves swooped and dove through the Great Hall, laughing gleefully and
singing about musical fruit.

Technomancy class was held in one of the smaller classrooms in the
levels above the main hall. It had one window immediately behind the
teacher's desk, and the morning sun shone directly through it, making
Professor Jackson's head a corona of golden light. He bent over the desk,
scratching away with a quill and parchment as Zane and James arrived.
They found seats in the uncomfortable hush of the room, taking care not to
break the silence by scraping their chairs. Slowly, the room filled, few
students daring to speak, so that no noise could be heard except the busy
scritch of the professor's quill. Finally, he consulted the clock on his desk
and stood up, smoothing the front of his dark grey tunic.

"Welcome, students. My name, as you may know, is Theodore
Jackson. I will be instructing you this year in the study of technomancy. I
believe a great deal in reading, and I put a great stock in listening. You will
do much of both in my class." His voice was calm and measured, more
refined than James had expected. His iron grey hair was combed with
military neatness. His bushy black eyebrows made a line as straight as a
ruler across his forehead.
"It has been said," Jackson continued, beginning to pace slowly around
the room, "that there is no such thing as a stupid question. No doubt you
yourselves have been told this. Questions, it is supposed, are the sign of an
inquisitive mind." He stopped, surveying them critically. "On the contrary,
questions are merely the sign of a student who has not been paying
attention."
Zane nudged James with his elbow. James glanced at him, then at his
parchment. Zane had already drawn a simple but remarkably accurate
caricature of the professor. James stifled a laugh, as much at Zane's audacity
as at the drawing.
Jackson continued. "Pay attention in class. Take notes. Read the
assigned texts. If you can
accomplish these things, you will find very little need for questions. Mind
you, I am not forbidding questions. I am merely warning you to consider
whether any question would require my repeating myself. If it does not, I
will commend you. If it does, I will…," he paused, allowing his gaze to
roam over the room, "remind you of this conversation."
Jackson had completed his circuit of the room. He turned to the
chalkboard next to the window. Taking his wand out of a sheath in his
sleeve, he flicked it at the board. "Who, pray, might be able to tell me what
the study of technomancy entails?" On the chalkboard, the word spelled out
in neat, slanting cursive. There was a long, uncomfortable pause. Finally, a
girl raised her hand tentatively.

Jackson gestured at her. "Call it out, Miss, er… forgive me, I will learn
all your names in time. Gallows, is it?"
"Sir," the girl said in a small voice, apparently thinking of Franklyn's
advice from the day before. "Technomancy is, I believe, the study of the
science of magic?"
"You are of the Ravenclaw House, Miss Gallows?" Jackson asked,
eyeing her. She nodded. "Five points for Ravenclaw, then, although I don't
approve of the word 'believe' in my class. Belief and knowledge have little,
if anything, in common. In this class, we will apply ourselves to knowledge.
Science. Facts. If you want belief, Mistress Delacroix's class will be
convening down the hall in the next hour." He pointed, and for the first time
there was the surfacing of something like humor in the stony façade. A few
students dared to smile and laugh quietly. Jackson turned, flicking his wand
at the chalkboard again.
"The study of the science of magic, yes. It is a common and sad
misunderstanding that magic is a mystical or unnatural pursuit. Those that
believe--and here I use the term 'believe' intentionally--those that believe
magic is simply mystical are also prone to believe in such things as destiny,
luck, and the American Quidditch team. In short, lost causes with no shred
of empirical evidence to support them." More smiles appeared in the room.
Obviously, there was more to Professor Jackson than met the eye.
"Magic," he continued, as the chalkboard began to scribble his notes,
"does not, I repeat, does not break any of the natural laws of science. Magic
exploits those laws using very specific and creative methods. Mr. Walker."
Zane jumped in his seat, looking up from the drawing he'd been
working at while the others scribbled notes. Jackson was still facing the
chalkboard, his back to Zane.
"I need a volunteer, Mr. Walker. Might I borrow your parchment?" It
wasn't a request. As he spoke, he flicked his wand and Zane's parchment
swooped up and wove toward the front of the room. Jackson caught it deftly

with a raised hand. He turned slowly, holding the parchment up, not looking
at it. The class looked with marked silence at the rather good caricature of
Jackson Zane had drawn. Zane began to sink slowly in his seat, as if he was
trying to melt under the desk.
"Is it simply magic that makes a true wizard's drawing take on life?"
Jackson asked. As he spoke, the drawing on the parchment moved. The
expression changed from a caricature of steely-eyed sternness to one of
cartoonish anger. The perspective pulled back, and now there was a desk in
front of the Jackson drawing. A tiny cartoon version of Zane cowered at the
desk. The Jackson drawing pulled out a gigantic cartoon clipboard and
began to make red slashes on the clipboard, which had the letters O.W.L.
across the top. The cartoon Zane fell on his knees, pleading silently with the
Jackson caricature, which shook its head imperiously. The cartoon Zane
cried, his mouth a giant boomerang of woe, comic tears springing from his
head.
Jackson turned his head and finally looked at the parchment in his
hand as the class erupted into gales of laughter. He smiled a small but
genuine smile. "Unfortunately, Mr. Walker, your subtracted five points
cancel out Miss Gallows' awarded five points. Ho hum. Such is life."
He began to pace around the room again, placing the drawing carefully
back onto Zane's desk as he passed. "No, magic is not, as it were, simply a
magic word. In reality, the true wizard learns to imprint his own personality
on the paper using a means other than the quill. Nothing unnatural occurs.
There is simply a different medium of expression taking place. Magic
exploits the natural laws, but it does not break them. In other words, magic
is not unnatural, but it is supernatural. That is, it is beyond the natural, but
not outside it. Another example. Mr. um…"
Jackson pointed at a boy near him, who leaned suddenly back in his
chair, looking rather cross-eyed at the pointing finger. "Murdock, sir," the
boy said.
"Murdock. You are of age for Apparition, I am correct?"

"Oh. Yes, sir," Murdock said, seeming relieved.
"Describe Apparition for us, will you?"
Murdock looked perplexed. "S'pretty basic, isn't it? I mean, it's just a
matter of getting a place nice and solid in your mind, closing your eyes,
and, well, making it happen. Then bang, you're there."
"Bang? You say?" Jackson said, his face blank.
Murdock reddened. "Well, yeah, more or less. You just zap there. Just
like that."
"So it is instantaneous, you'd say."
"Yeah. I guess I'd say that."
Jackson raised an eyebrow. "You guess?"
Murdock squirmed, glancing at those seated near him for help. "Er.
No. I mean, yes. Definitely. Instantaneously. Like you said."
"Like you said, Mr. Murdock," Jackson corrected mildly. He was
moving again, proceeding back toward the front of the room. He touched
another student on the shoulder as he went. "Miss?"
"Sabrina Hildegard, sir," Sabrina said as clearly and politely as she
could.
"Would you be so kind as to perform a small favor for us, Miss
Hildegard? We require the use of two ten-second timers from Professor
Slughorn's Potions room. Second door on the left, I believe. Thank you."
Sabrina hurried out as Jackson faced the classroom again. "Mr.

Murdock, have you any idea what it is, precisely, that happens when you
Disapparate?"
Murdock had apparently determined that abject ignorance was his
safest tack. He shook his head firmly.
Jackson seemed to approve. "Let us examine it this way. Who can tell
me where vanished objects go?"
This time Petra Morganstern raised her hand. "Sir. Vanished objects go
nowhere, which is to say, they go everywhere."
Jackson nodded. "A textbook answer, Miss. But an empty one. Matter
cannot be in two places at once, nor can it be both everywhere and
nowhere. I'll save our time by not taxing this class's ignorance on the
subject any longer. This is the part where you listen and I speak."
Around the room, quills were dipped and made ready. Jackson began
to pace again. "Matter, as even you all know, is made up almost entirely of
nothing. Atoms collect in space, forming a shape that, from our vantage
point, seems solid. This candlestick," Jackson laid his hand on a brass
candlestick on his desk, "seems to us to be a single, very solid item, but is,
in fact, trillions of tiny motes hovering with just enough proximity to one
another as to imply shape and weight to our clumsy perspective. When we
vanish it," Jackson flicked his wand casually at the candlestick and it
disappeared with a barely audible pop, "we are not moving the candlestick,
or destroying it, or causing the matter that comprised it to cease being. Are
we?"
Jackson's piercing eyes roamed over the room, leaping from face to
face as the students stopped writing, waiting for him to go on.
"No. Instead, we have altered the arrangement of the spaces between
those atoms," he said meaningfully. "We have expanded the distance from
point to point, perhaps a thousandfold, perhaps a millionfold. The
multiplication of those spaces expands the candlestick to a point of nearly
planetary dimensions. The result is that we can actually walk through it,

through the spaces between its atoms, and never even notice. In short, the
candlestick is still here. It has simply been expanded so greatly, thinned to
such an ephemeral level as to become physically insubstantial. It is, in
effect, everywhere, and nowhere."
Sabrina returned with the timers, placing them onto Jackson's desk.
"Ah, thank you, Miss Hildegard. Murdock."
Murdock jumped again. There was a titter from the class. "Sir?"
"Fear not, my brave friend. I would like you to perform what I suspect
you will find to be a very simple task. I'd like you to Disapparate for us."
Murdock looked shocked. "Disapparate? But… but nobody can
Disapparate on the school grounds, sir."
"True enough. A quaint and merely symbolic restriction, but a
restriction nonetheless. Fortunately for us, I have arranged a temporary
educational allowance that will allow you, Mr. Murdock, to Disapparate
from over there," Jackson paced to the front corner of the room and pointed
at the floor, "to here."
Murdock stood and swayed slightly as he worked out what the
professor was asking. "You want me to Disapparate from this room… to
this room?"
"From over there, where you are, to here. This corner, if you could. I
wouldn't expect it to be much of a challenge. Except, I'd like you to do it
carrying this." Jackson picked up one of the small hourglasses Sabrina had
brought. "Turn it over at precisely the moment before you Disapparate.
Understood?"
Murdock nodded in relief. "No problem, sir. I can do that blindfolded."
"I shouldn't think that'd be necessary," Jackson said, handing Murdock

the timer. He returned to the front of the room, picking up the second timer
himself.
"On three, Mr. Murdock. One… two… three!"
Both Murdock and Jackson turned their timers over. A split second
later, Murdock vanished with a loud crack. Every eye in the room snapped
towards the front corner.
Jackson held the timer, watching the sand flow silently through the
pinched glass. He hummed a bit. He allowed himself to lean slightly on his
desk. Then, lazily, he turned and looked into the front corner of the
classroom.
There was a second crack as Murdock Reapparated. In one remarkably
swift motion, Jackson took Murdock's hourglass from his hand and laid
both his and Murdock's on their sides in the middle of his desk. He stood
back, looking severely at both hourglasses. The sand in Jackson's hourglass
was divided almost evenly between the two bulbs. Murdock's hourglass still
had nearly all of its sand in the top.
"I'm afraid, Mr. Murdock," Jackson said, not taking his eyes off the
hourglasses, "that your hypothesis has proven faulty. Do return to your seat,
and thank you."
Jackson looked up at the class and gestured at the hourglasses. "A
difference of four seconds, give or take a few tenths. It appears that
Apparition is not, in fact, instantaneous. But--and this is the very interesting
part--it is instantaneous for the Apparator. What can technomancy tell us
about this? That is a rhetorical question. I will answer."
Jackson resumed his pacing around the room as words began to
scribble onto the chalkboard again. Around the room, students bent over
their parchments. "Apparition utilizes exactly the same methodology as
vanished objects. The Apparator magnifies the distance between his or her
own atoms, expanding themselves to such a degree that they become
physically insubstantial, unseen, immeasurable, effectively, everywhere.

Having achieved everywhereness, the Apparator then automatically reduces
the distance between his or her atoms, but with a new center point,
determined by their mental landmarking immediately before Disapparition.
The wizard standing in London envisions Ebbets Field, Disapparates--that
is, achieves everywhereness--and then Reapparates with a new solidity
point at Ebbets Field. It is essential that the wizard make that predestination
in his mind before Disapparition. Can anyone tell me, using technomancy,
why?"
Silence. Then the girl named Gallows raised her hand again. "Because
the process of Apparition is instantaneous for the wizard?"
"Partial credit, Miss," Jackson said, almost kindly. "Depending on
distances, Apparition takes time, as we have just seen, and time is not,
relatively speaking, flexible. No, the reason that the wizard must firmly fix
his destination before he Disapparates is that, while the wizard is in the
state of everywhereness, his mind is in a state of perfect hibernation. The
time it takes to Apparate is not instantaneous, but because the wizard's mind
is effectively frozen during the process, it seems to be instantaneous to him.
Since a wizard cannot think or feel during the process of Apparition, a
wizard who fails to fix his solidity destination before Disapparating… will
never Reapparate at all."
Jackson frowned and scanned the class, looking for some sign that
they'd grasped the lesson. After several seconds, a hand slowly raised. It
was Murdock. His face was a pall of misery as he apparently struggled to
arrange these radical concepts in his mind. Jackson's bushy black eyebrows
rose slowly.
"Yes, Mr. Murdock?"
"Question sir. I'm sorry. Where--" he coughed, cleared his throat, and
then licked his lips. "Where is Ebbets Field?"

James met Zane and Ralph after lunch, all three having a short free
period. With too much time to head directly to their next classes, but not
enough time to go to their common rooms, they strolled aimlessly along the
crowded halls near the courtyard, trying to stay out of the way of the older
students and discussing their morning's classes.
"I'm telling you, old Stonewall has some wacky magical effect on the
passage of time!" Zane told Ralph passionately. "I swear, at one point, I saw
the clock actually move backwards."
"Well, I liked my teacher. Professor Flitwick. You've seen him
around," Ralph said, amiably changing the subject.
Zane was undeterred. "Guy's got eyes in the back of his wig or
something. Who'd've thought a school of witchcraft would be so sneaky?"
"Professor Flitwick teaches beginning spells and wandwork, doesn't
he?" James asked Ralph.
"Yeah. It was really excellent. I mean, it's one thing to read about
doing magic, but seeing it happen is something else. He made his chair
float, books and all!"
"Books?" Zane interjected.
"Yeah, you know that stack of books he keeps on his chair so he can
see over the desk? Must be a hundred pounds of them. He floated the chair
right off the floor with them still on it, just using his wand."
"How'd you do at it?" Zane asked. James cringed, thinking of Ralph's
ridiculous wand.
"Not bad, actually," Ralph said mildly. There was a pause as Zane and
James stopped to look at him.
"Really. Not bad," Ralph repeated. "I mean, we weren't lifting chairs or

anything. Just feathers. Flitwick said he didn't expect us to get it the first
time. But still, I did as well as anybody else." Ralph looked thoughtful.
"Maybe even a little better. Flitwick seemed pretty happy with it. He said I
was a natural."
"You made a feather float with that crazy snowman-whisker log?"
Zane asked incredulously.
Ralph looked annoyed. "Yes. For your information, Flitwick says that
the wand is just a tool. It's the wizard that makes the magic. Maybe I'm just
talented. Did that occur to you, Mr. Wand-Expert-All-of-a-Sudden?"
"Sheesh, sorry," Zane mumbled. "Just don't point that crazy snowman
log at me. I wanna keep the same number of arms and legs."
"Forget it," James soothed as they started walking again. "Flitwick's
right. Who cares where your wand came from? You really got the feather to
levitate?"
Ralph allowed a small grin of pride. "All the way to the ceiling. It's
still up there now! I got it stuck in a rafter."
"Nice," James nodded appreciatively.
An older boy in a green tie bumped James, knocking him off the path
and into the grass of the courtyard. He bumped into Ralph as well, but
Ralph was as tall as the older boy, and rather wider. The boy bounced off
Ralph, who didn't budge.
"Sorry," Ralph muttered as the boy stopped and glared at him.
"Watch where you're going, first years," the boy said coldly, glancing
from James to Ralph. "And maybe you ought to be more careful who you
allow yourself to be seen with, Deedle." He stepped around Ralph without
waiting for a response.
"Now, that's the Slytherin spirit you told me about on the train," Zane

said. "So much for 'I expect we'll all be friends.'"
"That was Trent," Ralph said morosely, watching the boy walk away.
"He's the one who told me my GameDeck was an insult to my wizarding
blood. Didn't take him long to borrow it, though."
James barely heard. He was distracted by something the boy had been
wearing. "What'd his badge say?"
"Oh, they've all started wearing those," Ralph said. "Tabitha Corsica
was handing them out in the common room this morning. Here." Ralph
reached into his robes and produced a similar badge. "I forgot to put mine
on."
James looked at the badge. White letters on a dark blue background
read 'Progressive Wizarding Against False History'. A large red 'X'
repeatedly slashed itself across the words 'False History', and then faded
out.
"They don't all say that," Ralph said, taking the badge back. "Some of
them say 'Question the Victors'. Others have longer sayings on them that
didn't make any sense to me. What's an Auror?"
Zane piped up. "My dad got called for 'Auror duty' once. He got out of
it because he was on a shoot in New Zealand. He says if 'Aurors' got paid
more, we'd get better verdicts."
Ralph looked bewildered at Zane. James sighed. "Aurors," he said
slowly and carefully, "are witches and wizards who find and catch dark
witches and wizards. They're sort of like wizarding police, I guess. My
dad's an Auror."
"Head of the Auror Department, you mean," a voice said as a group
passed. Tabitha Corsica was at the head of the group, looking back at James
as she swept on. "But do pardon my interruption." The others in the group
looked back at James with unreadable smiles. All of them were wearing the
blue badges.

"Yeah," James said, loudly but rather uncertainly, "he is."
"Your dad's chief of the wizard cops?" Zane asked, glancing from the
departing Slytherins to James. James grimaced and nodded. He'd had a
chance to read another of the badges. It read 'Say No to Auror Fear
Mongering; Say Yes to Freedom of Magical Expression'. James didn't know
what any of it meant, but he had a bad feeling about it.
Zane suddenly turned and nudged Ralph with his elbow. "Better get
that badge on, mate, or your house buddies will think you've gone all soft
on False History and the Auror Imperialists or whatever."
James blinked, finally registering something Ralph had said a minute
ago. "Did you say that your roommate borrowed your GameDeck thing?"
Ralph smiled humorlessly. "Well, maybe not him. Somebody did. Not
that many people knew about it, though. Unless they talked it up behind my
back. All I know is it went missing from my bag right after I showed it to
you guys. I suppose my housemates were just purging the room of
counterfeit magic." He sighed.
James couldn't shake the nasty feeling that was cooling in his belly. It
was all wrapped up in the sugary niceness of some of the Slytherins, and the
odd badges. And now, one of them had taken Ralph's weird Muggle game
device. Why?
They were passing the Hogwarts trophy case when Zane, who had
drifted ahead, called out. "Hey, club sign-up sheets. Let's do something
extracurricular." He leaned in, examining one sheet in particular. "'Read the
Runes! Predict your Fate and the Fates of your Friends! Learn the Language
of the Stars.' Blah, blah. 'Constellations Club. Meets at eleven o'clock on
Tuesdays in the West Tower.' Sounds to me like an excuse to be out late. I'm
there." He grabbed the quill which had been affixed to a shelf by a length of
string, dipped it theatrically, and scribbled his name on the sheet.
James and Ralph had caught up with him. Ralph leaned in, reading the

sign-up sheets aloud. "Debate teams, Wizard Chess Club, House Quidditch
teams."
"What? Where?" Zane said, still holding the quill as if he meant to stab
something with it. He found the parchment for the Ravenclaw Quidditch
Team tryouts and began to sign his name. "I just gotta get on one of those
brooms. What do you think my chances are, James?"
James took the quill from Zane, shaking his head in amusement.
"Anything's possible. My dad was the Seeker for the Gryffindor team his
first year. Youngest Seeker in team history. He's part of the reason they
changed the rules. Used to be that first years couldn't be on the team. Now
it's allowed, but really, really rare." James signed his name to the bottom of
the sheet for the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Tryouts, he saw, were after
classes the next day.
"Ralph, you going to sign up for the Slytherins? Come on! All your
friends are doing it!" Zane leered at the bigger boy.
"Nah, I was never very good at sports."
"You?" Zane cried heartily, throwing an arm rather awkwardly over
Ralph's shoulder. "You're a brick wall! All you have to do is park yourself
in front of the goal and the defense is all shored up! All they'd need is to
find a broom that'll hold you, you big lug."
"Shut up!" Ralph said, twisting away from Zane's arm, but smiling
and turning red. "Actually I was thinking about signing up for the debate
team. Tabitha thinks I'd be good on it."
James blinked. "Tabitha Corsica asked you to be on the Slytherin
debate team?"
"Actually," Zane said, peering at the debate sign-up sheets, "debate
teams aren't divided by house. They're just random Teams A and B. Look,

people from all different houses are on each team. There's even some of the
visiting Alma Alerons on here."
"Why don't you go ahead and sign up, Ralph?" James asked. Ralph
obviously wanted to.
"I don't know. I might."
"Oh, look, Petra's on Team A," Zane said. He began to sign his name
again.
James frowned. "You're joining the debate team just because Petra
Morganstern is on it?"
"Can you think of a better reason?"
"You know," James said, laughing, "Petra is going out with Ted, I
think."
"My dad says girls don't know whether they like ice cream until
they've tried every kind," Zane said wisely, sticking the quill back into its
holder.
Ralph furrowed his brow. "What's that mean?"
"It means Zane here thinks he can give Ted a run for his money in the
romance department," James said. He both admired and worried about
Zane's lack of inhibition.
"It means," Zane replied, "that Petra doesn't know what she wants in a
man until she's had a chance to get to know as many men as possible. I'm
thinking only of her best interests."
Ralph studied Zane for a moment. "You do know you're eleven years old,
right?"
James stopped as Zane and Ralph began to walk on. His eye had been

caught by a picture in the trophy case. He leaned in, cupping his hands
around his face to block the glare of the sun. The picture was black and
white, moving, as all wizard pictures did. It was his dad, younger, thinner,
his black hair wild and unruly over the famous, characteristic scar. He was
smiling uncomfortably at the camera, his eyes moving as if he were
avoiding eye contact with somebody or something outside the camera's
view. Next to the framed photo was a large trophy made of silver and a sort
of blue crystal that glowed with a shifting, curling light. James read the
plaque below the trophy.
The Triwizard Cup
Jointly Awarded to Harry Potter and Cedric Diggory,
Hogwarts students of the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff Houses,
respectively,
for winning the Triwizard Tournament, which was held upon
these grounds
with the cooperation of representatives from the
Durmstrang Institute and the Beauxbatons Academy of
Magic.
There was more, but James didn't read it. He knew the story. Harry
Potter's name had been drawn as a competitor fraudulently, having been
placed into the running by a dark wizard named Crouch. It had led to both
Harry and Diggory being sent via Portkey to Voldemort's lair, resulting in
the evil wizard's bodily return. No wonder his dad looked so uncomfortable
in the photo. He had been under the legal age for the tournament, and had
been the superfluous fourth contestant in a three wizard competition. He'd
been in a room full of people who suspected him of cheating and dark
magic, at best.
James glanced at the photo on the other side of the cup, the one of
Diggory. His smile looked genuine and hearty compared to his dad's. James

had never seen a photo of Diggory before, but it looked familiar
nonetheless. He knew the story of Diggory, knew he had died next to his
dad in the graveyard they'd been sent to, killed at the command of
Voldemort. His dad rarely talked about that night, and James understood
why, or at least thought he did.
He sighed, and then ran to catch up with Zane and Ralph.
Later that day, when James stopped in his room to swap books for his
Defense Against the Dark Arts class, he found Nobby waiting for him,
scratching the windowsill impatiently. James grabbed the rolled parchment
off Nobby's leg and read it.
Dear James,
Your father and I are thrilled to hear you are settling in well,
as we knew you would. Your Uncle Ron says congratulations on
becoming a Gryffindor, and we all concur. Can't wait to hear how
your first day's classes go. Also, I hope you hear about this from
us first: your father has been asked to go to Hogwarts for a
meeting with the American wizards about international security
and other matters of 'mutual interest'. I'll be staying home with
Albus and Lil, but your father looks forward to seeing you next
week. Make sure you are eating more than pastries and meat pies
and be sure to get your robes and yourself washed at least once a
week. (That was a joke. Actually, no, it wasn't.)
Love and kisses,
Mum
James folded the note into the book he was carrying as he ran down
the steps. The knowledge that he'd be seeing his dad next week had left him
with mixed feelings. Of course, he was excited to see him and to introduce
him to his new friends. Still, he feared that the visit would also make the
shadow of his famous father that much harder to escape. He was fleetingly

thankful that Zane and Ralph were both Muggle-born, and therefore,
relatively ignorant of the exploits of his legendary dad.
As he joined the crowd of students filing into the Defense Against the
Dark Arts classroom, James saw another of the badges on a Slytherin's
robe. 'Progressive Wizards Against Magical Discrimination', it read. He felt
a sort of aimless, sinking feeling, and then he noticed the newspaper
clipping tacked to the wall near the door. 'Harry Potter to Join International
Wizarding Summit', ran the headline. Below it, smaller type read 'Head
Auror to Meet United States Representatives During Hogwarts Ceremony.
Security Questions Prevail.' Pinned to the newspaper clipping so that it
obscured the photo of a smiling adult Harry Potter was another of the blue
badges. 'Question the Victors', it flashed.
"Come on," Ralph urged, joining James. "We'll be late."
As they navigated the crowded room and found two seats near the
front, Ralph leaned toward James. "Was that your dad on that newspaper
story?"
James had assumed Ralph hadn't noticed it. He glanced at Ralph as
they sat down. "Yeah. Mum just wrote me about it. He'll be here beginning
of next week. Big meeting with the Americans, I guess."
Ralph said nothing, but looked uncomfortable.
"You already knew about it, didn't you?" James whispered as the class
quieted down.
"No," Ralph muttered, "at least, not specifically. My housemates have
been talking about some sort of protest all day, though. Looks like it's about
your dad, I guess."
James stared at Ralph, his mouth open slightly. So that's what Tabitha
Corsica and her Slytherins were up to, behind all the friendly smiles and
speeches. The Slytherin tactics had changed, but not their purpose. James
pressed his lips into a grim line and turned to the front of the room as

Professor Franklyn approached the main desk. Professor Jackson was
walking next to him, carrying his black leather case and talking in a low
tone.
"Greetings, students," Franklyn said crisply. "I suspect many of you
have already met Professor Jackson. Please forgive the short delay."
Jackson eyed the seated students from over his shoulder, his face like
granite. Zane's nickname for the man did seem to be rather appropriate,
James thought. Franklyn turned back to Jackson and spoke in a hushed
voice. Jackson seemed discontent with what Franklyn was saying. He set
his case down on the floor next to him, freeing his hand to gesture minutely.
James looked down at the case. It was only a foot or two from where
he sat in the front row. Jackson was never seen without the case, which was
unremarkable in nearly every way apart from the fact that he guarded it so
closely. James tried not to listen in on the conversation between the two
professors, which was obviously meant to be secret. Of course, that made it
all the more intriguing. He heard the words 'grotto' and 'Merlin'. Then a
third voice pierced the room.
"Professor Jackson," the voice said, and while it wasn't a loud voice, it
rang with an air of understated power. James turned around to see who was
speaking. Madame Delacroix was standing just inside the doorway to the
room, her blind gaze hovering somewhere over everyone's heads. "I thought
you might like to know dat your class is awaiting you. You are always such
a…," she seemed to search the air for the right word, "stickler for
punctuality." Her voice had a slow drawl that was somehow both French
and Southern American. She smiled vaguely, then turned, her cane clicking
the floor, and disappeared down the hall.
Jackson's face was even harder than normal as he stared at the now
empty doorway. He glanced pointedly at Franklyn, and then dropped his
gaze, reaching for his case. He froze in mid-reach, and James couldn't help
glancing down toward the professor's feet. The black leather case had
apparently come slightly open when he'd set it down. Its brass catches
glinted. No one else seemed to have noticed except for James and Professor
Jackson. Jackson resumed reaching for his case, slowly, clicking it closed

with one large, knobby-knuckled hand. James had only a narrow glimpse
into the case. It appeared to be stuffed with folds of some rich, dark cloth.
Jackson straightened, picking the case back up, and as he did so, he glanced
at James, his stony face grim. James tried to glance away, but it was too
late. Jackson knew he'd seen, even if he didn't know what it was.
Without a word, Jackson strode back up the aisle, moving with that
purposeful, sweeping gait that looked so much like an old battleship under
full sail, and then turned into the hall without looking back.
"Thank you for your patience," Franklyn said to the class, adjusting his
glasses. "Welcome to Defense Against the Dark Arts. By now, most of you
know my name, and many of you, I assume, know something of my history.
Just to get some of the obvious questions out of the way: Yes, I am that
Benjamin Franklin. No, I didn't actually invent electricity for the Muggles,
but I did give them a small push in the right direction. Yes, I was a part of
the American Continental Congress, although for obvious reasons, I was
not one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. At that time, I
used two different spellings of my name, only one of which was known to
the Muggle world, which made it easier for me to know which
correspondences to open first. Yes, I realize my face graces the American
one hundred dollar bill. No, contrary to popular myth, I do not carry sheets
of uncut hundreds around to snip out and sign for admirers. Yes, I am
indeed quite old, and yes, this is accomplished through means of magic,
although I assure you that those means are a lot more mundane and prosaic
than many have assumed. Emphatically no, I am not immortal. I am a very,
very old man who has aged rather well with a little help. Does that cover
most of the obvious questions?" Franklyn finished with a wry smile,
surveying the remarkably full classroom. There was a murmur of assent.
"Excellent. Onward and upward then. And please," Franklyn
continued, opening a very large book on his desk, "let us avoid any 'it's all
about the Benjamins' jokes. They weren't funny two hundred years ago and
they are even less funny now, thank you."

Crossing the grounds on their way to dinner in the Great Hall, James
and Ralph were passing Hagrid's cabin when they noticed the ribbon of
smoke coming out of the chimney. James broke into a grin, called Ralph to
follow, and ran up to the front door.
"James!" Hagrid bellowed, opening the door. He threw his arms
around the boy, completely engulfing him. Ralph's eyes widened and he
took a step backwards, looking Hagrid up and down. "So good to have a
Potter back in school. How's yer mum an' dad, an' li'l Albus an' Lily?"
"Everybody's fine, Hagrid. Where've you been?"
Hagrid stepped out, closing the door behind him. They followed him
as he crossed the grounds toward the castle. "Up the mountains meetin' with
the giants, that's where. Grawp and me, we go every year, don't we?
Spreadin' goodwill an' tryin' to keep 'em all honest, for whatever it's worth.
Stayed a li'l longer this year on account o' li'l Grawpy findin' himself a
girlfriend. Who's yer mate here, James?"
James, momentarily distracted by the thought of Hagrid's half-brother,
who was a full giant, performing mating rituals with a mountain giantess,
had completely forgotten about Ralph. "Oh! This is my friend, Ralph
Deedle. He's a first year, like me. Hagrid, are you telling us Grawp's in
love?"
Hagrid grew vaguely misty. "Aww, it's sweet to see the li'l fella and his
lady friend together. Why, they're both just as happy as a pair of hippogriffs
in a henhouse. Giant courtships are very delicate things, yeh know."
Ralph was having some difficulty keeping up with the conversation.
"Grawp, your brother, is a giant?"
"Well, sure," Hagrid boomed happily. "He's only a li'l one. Sixteen
feet or so. Yeh should see his lady friend. She's from the Crest-Dweller's
tribe, twenty-two feet if she's an inch. Not my type of girl, o' course, but
Grawpy's just smitten by her. Not surprising, really, since the first step in

any giant courtship is smitin' the mate over the head with a big hunk of tree
trunk. She laid the li'l fella right out cold for the best part of a day. After
that, he's been as google-eyed as a pup."
James was afraid to ask, and suspected he knew the answer. "Did
Grawp bring his girlfriend back home with him?"
Hagrid looked taken aback. "Well, sure he did. This is his home, now,
isn't it? He'll make a good wife of her, once they're done a-courtin'. She's
made herself a nice little hovel up in the hills behind the forest. Grawp's
there now, helpin' her settle in, I expect."
James tried to imagine Grawp helping a twenty-two-foot giantess
'settle in', but his exhausted imagination shut down. He shook his head,
attempting to clear it.
"I hear your dad's comin' in for a meetin' next week, James," Hagrid
said as they entered the shadow of the main gates. "Havin' a meetin' of the
minds with the muckety-mucks from across the pond, eh?"
James puzzled over Hagrid's terminology. "If you say so."
"Ahh, it'll be nice to have yer dad over for tea again, just like old
times. Only without all the secrecy and adventure. Did I tell yeh about the
time yer dad and Ron and Hermione helped my Norbert escape?"
"Only about a hundred times, Hagrid," James laughed, pulling open
the door of the Great Hall. "But don't worry, it changes a little every time I
hear it."
Later, when dinner was almost over, James approached Hagrid where
he thought they could have a more private conversation. "Hagrid, can I ask
you a, sort of, official question?"
"O' course yeh can. I can't guarantee I'll know the answer, but I'll do
my best."

James glanced around and saw Ralph sitting at the Slytherin table on
the edge of Tabitha Corsica's group. She was talking seriously, her pretty
face lit in the candlelight and the deepening light of the dusky ceiling. "Do
people ever get, I don't know, sorted wrong? Is it possible that the Hat could
make a mistake and put somebody in the wrong house?"
Hagrid sat down heavily on a nearby bench, making it groan
appreciably. "Well, I can't say as I've ever heard of it happ'nin' before," he
said. "Some people may not like where they're placed, but that doesn't mean
it's not a good fit. It might mean they just aren't happy with who they really
are. What is it yer worried about, James?"
"Oh, it's not me I'm thinking of," James said hurriedly, taking his eyes
off Ralph so as not to implicate him. "It's just a, sort of, you know, general
question. I was just wondering."
Hagrid smiled crookedly and clapped James on the back, making him
stumble half a step. "Just like your dad, yeh are. Always lookin' out for
other people when yeh ought to be watchin' your own step. It'll get yeh in
hot water if yeh aren't careful, just like it did him!" He chuckled, making a
sound like loose rocks in a fast river. The thought seemed to bring Hagrid a
great deal of hearty pleasure. "Nah, the Sorting Hat knows what it's up to, I
expect. Everything'll come out all right. Yeh wait and see."
But as James walked back to his table, making eye contact with Ralph
for a moment as he passed the Slytherins, he wondered.

4. The Progressive Element
James Potter sat up in his bed, stifling a gasp. He listened very intently,
peering around the darkened sleeping chamber. All around him were the
small sounds of sleeping Gryffindors. Ted rolled over and snorted,
muttering in his sleep. James held his breath. He'd awakened a few minutes
earlier with the sound of his own name in his ears. It had been like a voice
in a dream: distant and whispered, as if blown on smoke down a long, dark
tunnel. He had just about convinced himself that it had, in fact, been the tail
of a dream and drifted back to sleep when he'd heard it again. It seemed to
come out of the walls themselves, a faraway sound, still somehow right
next to him, like a chorus of whispers saying his full name.

Very quietly, James slipped out of bed and shrugged into his bathrobe.
The stone floor was cool under his feet as he stood and listened, tilting his
head. He turned slowly, and as he looked toward the door, the figure there
moved. He hadn't seen it appear, it was simply there, floating, where a
moment before there had been darkness. James startled and backed into his
bed, almost falling backwards onto it. Then he recognized the ghostly
shape. It was the same wispy, white figure he'd seen chase the interloper off
the school grounds, the ghostly shape that had come to look like a young
man as it came back to the castle. In the darkness of the doorway, the figure
seemed much brighter than it had appeared in the morning sunlight. It was
wispy and shifting, with only the barest suggestion of its human shape. It
spoke again without moving.
James Potter.
Then it turned and flitted down the stairs.
James hesitated for only a second, then wrapped his bathrobe more
tightly about him and followed the figure, his bare feet slapping lightly on
the stone steps.
He reached the deserted common room just in time to see the ghostly
shape glide through the portrait hole, passing through the back of the
portrait of the Fat Lady. James hurried to follow.
James expected the Fat Lady to scold him as he snuck past her, but she
was deeply asleep in her frame as he closed it gently. She was snoring a
remarkably tiny, ladylike snore, and James wondered if it was an enchanted
sleep cast by the ghostly figure.
The halls were silent and dark, it being the very pit of night. Silvery
blue moonlight sifted through the few windows. It occurred to James that he
should have brought his wand. He couldn't do much with it yet, but he did
know a basic Illumination Spell. He glanced around the pattern of
moonlight and shadows that was the hall, seeking the ghostly shape. It was
nowhere in sight. He chose a direction at random and trotted along it.

Several turns later, James was about to give up. He wasn't even sure
he'd know his way back to the Gryffindor common room. The corridor here
was high and narrow, with no windows and only one torch guttering redly
near the archway he'd entered by. Closed doors lined the corridor on both
sides, each one made of thick wood and braced with iron bars. Behind one
of them, a gust of night wind made something creak, low and long, like the
moan of a sleeping giant. The overall effect was rather frightening, but
James couldn't quite bring himself to turn back just yet. He walked slowly
down the corridor, the torch making his shadow stretch before him,
flickering into blackness.
"Hello?" he said quietly, his voice hoarse, just above a whisper. "Are
you still there? I can't see you."
There was no response. The corridor was growing colder. James
stopped, squinting hopelessly into the shadows, and then turned around.
Something flickered across the corridor inches from his face and he
jumped. The white shape streamed through one of the doors, and James saw
that that door wasn't entirely closed. Blue moonlight filled the space he
could see through the crack. Trembling, James pushed the door and it
creaked open. Almost immediately, the door caught on something, making a
grating scrape. There were broken chunks of iron on the floor next to
something long and black with a hook on the end. It was a crowbar. James
kicked these aside and pushed the door further open, stepping in.
The room was long and dusty, cluttered with broken desks and chairs,
apparently once sent here for repair, but long forgotten. The ceiling sloped
down toward the back wall, where four windows glowed with moonlight.
The window on the far right was broken. Glass glittered on the floor and
one of the swinging panes hung crookedly like a broken bat wing. The
ghostly figure stood there, looking down at the broken glass, and then
turned to look at James over its shoulder. It had resumed its human shape,
and James gasped as he saw the young man's face. Then two things
happened simultaneously. The ghostly shape evaporated in a wisp of silvery
smoke, and there was a crash and clatter from the corridor outside.

James jumped and spun on the spot, peering out the door. He didn't see
anything, but he could still hear an echoing clatter from the darkness. James
leaned against the inside of the door, his heart thudding so hard that he
could see dull green flashes in his peripheral vision. He glanced around the
room, but it was completely dark and empty except for the cobwebby
furniture and broken window. The ghostly man was gone. James took a
deep breath, then turned and crept out into the corridor again.
There was another, smaller clatter. James could tell by the sound of it
that it was further down the corridor, in the darkness. It echoed as if it were
coming from another side room. Again, James berated himself for having
forgotten his wand. He tiptoed into the darkness. After what felt like an age,
there was another open door. He held onto the stonework of the doorframe
and peered in.
James vaguely recognized the Potions storage room. There was a man
in it. He was dressed in black jeans and a black shirt. James recognized him
as the very same man he had seen the morning before at the edge of the
Forbidden Forest, sneaking photographs. He stood on a stool, examining the
shelves with a small penlight. On the floor by the stool were the shattered
remains of a couple of small vials. As James watched, the man stuck the
penlight in his teeth and groped for another jar on the top shelf, keeping a
precarious hold on the opposite shelf with his free hand.
"Heritah Herung," he read to himself around the penlight, craning his
neck to direct the light onto the jar. "What the heck ith thith thtufh?" His
voice was a low, awed mutter. Suddenly, the man looked toward the door.
His eyes made contact with James, and for a long moment, neither moved.
James was sure the man would attack him. He was obviously an intruder,
and James had seen him. He tried to will his feet to turn and run, but there
seemed to be some disconnect between his brain and his lower extremities.
He stood and stared, gripping the stonework of the doorway as if he meant
to climb it. Then the man did the last thing James expected. He turned and
ran.
He was gone almost before James realized it. The curtain at the back

of the storage room still swayed where the man had blown through it. To
James' great surprise, he darted to follow the man.
The Potions storage room led into the Potions classroom itself. Long,
high tables stood in the darkness, their stools tucked neatly beneath them.
James stopped and cocked his head. Footsteps echoed from the corridor
beyond. His own feet smacked the stone floor as James dodged around the
tables and out into the corridor, following the man.
The man was hesitating at a point where two corridors crossed. He
looked desperately back and forth, then glanced up and saw James coming.
The man let out the same high, little shriek James had heard him make
when he'd been chased by the ghost. He slipped on the stones, his feet
seeming to run in three directions at once, then he mastered them and ran
clumsily down the broader corridor. James knew where he was now. The
man would come out onto the hall of the moving staircases. Even as James
was thinking it, he heard another little shriek of surprise echoing back to
him. He grinned as he ran.
James stuttered to a stop at a railing and leaned over, peering intently
into the darkness of the floors below. At first, the subtle grinding of the
stairs was the only noise, and then he heard the clatter of the man's shoes.
There he was, holding onto a railing for dear life and stumbling down a
staircase as it swiveled ponderously. James hesitated for a moment, then did
something that he'd always wanted to do but never quite had the temerity to
try: he clambered up on the railing of the nearest staircase, straddled it, and
then let go.
The thick wooden railings, polished by generations of house-elves to a
rocklike, glassy shine, were like beams of ice beneath James. He shot down
the railing, craning his head over his shoulder to see where he was going.
His hair, which had gotten lank with sweat in the minutes before, ruffled as
air whipped past. When he neared the bottom, he gripped the railing again
with both his arms and his legs, slowing, and then hopping lightly off the
bottom. He cast around, looking for the man, and saw him clambering
toward another landing, one floor below.

James' dad had told him about the moving staircases, had explained the
secret of navigating them. James gauged the moving labyrinth, and then
chose another staircase just as it began to swivel. He swung himself over
the railing and let go, streaking down it as if it were greased. On one side
was the swaying chasm of landings, staircases, and halls; on the other, the
speed of the blurring stairs. James gritted his teeth and craned to look
behind him again. The man was just reaching the landing below. He
stumbled, disoriented, as he backed off the staircase, and then looked up
just as James rocketed into him.
James hit the man at full speed, rebounded off him, and sprawled onto
the flagstones of the landing. The man shrieked a third time, this time in
frustration and surprise, as the force of the collision knocked him entirely
off his feet. There was a piercingly loud crash, followed by a shower of
tinkling glass. James rolled and covered his face instinctively. When silence
descended again, James peeked through his fingers. There was a very large,
roughly man-shaped hole in the stained-glass window at the foot of the
landing. Through it, the spindly black fingers of trees swayed in a night
breeze, scratching amiably at the star-strewn sky.
"What is going on up there?" a raspy voice called, vibrating with rage.
James scrambled to his feet, being careful not to step on any of the broken
glass with his bare feet. Gingerly, he edged as close to the hole as he could
and peered down. It was hard to tell how high the window was. There was
no noise from the night except the hiss of the wind in the treetops.
Mrs. Norris the cat streaked up a nearby staircase, her orange eyes
baleful as she flicked her gaze over the window, the broken glass, and then
James. Mr. Filch followed, puffing and cursing as he climbed.
"Oh," he said, his voice dripping with sarcasm. "It's the Potter boy.
Why, oh, why am I not surprised?"

"What were you thinking, Potter, chasing an unidentified individual,
through the castle, at night, alone?" Headmistress McGonagall was
standing behind her desk, leaning on it with both arms, ramrod straight. Her
eyes were incredulous, her face scowling.
"I--" James began, but she raised one hand, stopping him.
"Don't answer. I've no patience for it this morning." She sighed and
stood up straight, pushing up her glasses and pinching the bridge of her
nose. "I've heard enough Potter explanations throughout the years to know
the general shape of them, anyway."
Filch stood nearby, the jut of his jaw and the glint of his eye showing
his pleasure at catching the latest Potter troublemaker so quickly. Mrs.
Norris purred in his arms like a small, furry engine. James risked a look
around the Headmistress' office. The room was still dim with very early
morning shadows. The portraits of all the previous headmasters and
headmistresses dozed in their frames. James could just see the portrait of his
brother's namesake, Albus Dumbledore. Dumbledore was seated, his chin
on his chest and his hat lowered over his eyes. His lips moved as he snored
silently.
McGonagall lowered herself into her chair. "Mr. Potter, you, of all
people, cannot tell me that you are not aware that there are rules against
students wandering the school grounds at night."
"No," James said quickly. "Er, yes, I do know about the rules. But the
ghost--"
McGonagall raised her hand again. "Yes, the ghost, I know."
Everything except her actual words expressed doubt about that part of his
story. "But Mr. Potter, you understand that even if a ghost appears in a
student's bed chamber, that does not give said student a free pass to break
whatever rules he deems temporarily inconvenient."
Mr. Filch stirred, seeming to decide that now was the time to press the

point as he saw it. "He destroyed the Heracles window, Headmistress.
Priceless bit of glasswork. We'll not find a replacement to match it, I'll
wager." He sneered down at James as he finished.
"Windows are one thing, Mr. Filch," McGonagall said, not looking at
him, "but intruders on school grounds are quite another. I presume you've
already arranged an inspection of the campus, beginning with the area
outside the Heracles window?"
"Yes, ma'am, and we've found nothing. The Venus Rose Gardens are
immediately below that window. They're a bit of a mess, broken glass
everywhere, but there's no sign of any intruder. We've only got this boy's
word that there ever was such an intruder, Headmistress."
"Yes," McGonagall replied. "And unfortunately, in this case, that is a
word I am inclined to trust. Someone obviously went through that window,
unless you are suggesting that Mr. Potter himself came in through it."
Filch ground his teeth and glared at James as if he wanted very much to
suggest such a possibility.
"But he was in the Potions room, ma'am!" James insisted. "He broke
some vials! They must still be there. And he broke in through a window not
far from there. I saw it. The ghost led me there."
McGonagall studied James carefully. "Mr. Potter, I believe that you
saw someone, but the likelihood of that person actually having broken onto
the school grounds from outside is extremely small. You are aware that
Hogwarts is protected by the best security measures and Anti-Magic spells
available. No witch or wizard, regardless of their skills, can possibly get
into these halls unless they are supposed to be here."
"That's just it, ma'am," James said earnestly. "I don't think he was a
wizard. I think he was a Muggle!"
He'd expected gasps of surprise from the Headmistress and Filch, but

there were none. The Headmistress merely gazed at him, her expression
unchanging. Filch glanced from her to James and back, then let out his
breath in a nasty little laugh.
"You've got to hand it to 'em, Headmistress. They get a little more
creative every year."
"James," McGonagall said, her voice softer, "the unplottable nature of
the school, as well as the innumerable Disillusionment Charms that blanket
the grounds, make it truly impossible for any Muggle, no matter how
persistent, to ever find their way in. You know that, don't you?"
James sighed and tried not to roll his eyes. "Yes. But that doesn't
change what I saw. It was a Muggle, ma'am. He used a crowbar. And a
penlight. Not a wand."
McGonagall read his face for a long moment, and then turned
businesslike. "Well, Mr. Potter, if you are correct, then we have a situation
on our hands that certainly needs remedying. You may trust that we will
look into the matter. However, in the meantime, there is still the issue of
breaking curfew, as well as the damaged window. Under the circumstances,
I won't blame you for the latter, but you must still face the consequences for
the former. You will serve two hours of detention with Mr. Filch this
Saturday night."
"But--" James began, then Filch's hand descended heavily onto his
shoulder.
"I'll take care of the lad, Headmistress," he growled. "It's not too late to
save 'em when you catch 'em early. Is it, young lad?"
"Potter," McGonagall said, apparently having already moved on to
other matters, "take Mr. Filch up to the Potions closet and the other broken
window, won't you? Let's try to get things cleaned up before classes if we
can. Good morning, gentlemen."
James stood miserably and Filch guided him to the door with the great,

callused hand on his shoulder.
"Come along, my lad. We've got mischief to rectify, haven't we?"
On the way out, James saw that one of the headmaster portraits was
not sleeping. The eyes of that headmaster were black, like the lanky hair
that framed the white face. Severus Snape studied James coldly, only his
eyes moving to follow as Filch marched him from the room.

Tina Curry, the Muggle Studies Professor, led the class briskly out onto
the lawn. The day which had started rather brightly was now turning grey
and blustery. Gusts of wind sprang up and flapped the edges of Professor
Curry's sport cloak and the nets Hagrid was trying to hang on the wooden
frame he had just finished assembling.
"Expertly done, Hagrid," Curry called as she approached, the class
trotting to keep up. "Sturdy as a barn, I daresay."
Hagrid looked up, losing his grasp on the netting as he did so and
scrambling to catch it. "Thank yeh, Ms. Curry. Weren't what yeh might call
a challenge. Up to this part, o' course, which is a might hairy."
Hagrid's construction was a simple wooden framework, roughly
rectangular. There was another one several dozen yards away, its netting
strung taut and swishing in the stiffening breeze.
"Curry's new this year, if you haven't guessed," Ted commented to
James as they gathered. "Has some pretty crazy ideas about how to learn
about Muggles. Makes a fellow wish he hadn't pushed off taking this class
until his last year."
"As if these outfits weren't bad enough," Damien said sourly, glancing
down at his shorts and socks. Every Thursday, Muggle Studies class was

required to dress out in shorts, athletic shoes, and one of two colors of
Hogwarts jerseys. Half the class was wearing burgundy, the other half, gold.
"You wouldn't look quite so, er, interesting, Damien, if you had some
white socks," Sabrina said as diplomatically as she could.
Damien gave her a tell-me-something-I-don't-know look. "Thanks,
sweetie. Tell my mum that next time she goes shopping at Sears and bloody
Roe-mart"
Zane didn't bother to correct Damien. He beamed with annoying good
cheer, obviously far more comfortable in the outfit than the rest. "I have a
good feeling about this. The breeze will air some of you vampires out.
Lighten up."
Damien hooked a thumb toward Zane. "Why is he even in this class?"
"He's right, Damien," Ted said good-naturedly. "Shake out the old
batwings a bit, why don't you?"
"All right, class," Curry called, clapping her hands for attention. "Let's
look orderly, shall we? Form two lines, please. Burgundy over here, gold
over there. That's very nice."
As the lines formed, Professor Curry produced a long basket from
under her arm. She paced to the head of the burgundy line. "Wands out,"
she called. Each student produced his or her wand and held them at the
ready, some of the first years glancing around to see if they were holding
theirs correctly. James saw Zane sneak a peek at Ted, then swap his wand
from his right hand to his left.
"Excellent," Curry said, holding the basket out. "In here, then, please."
She began to pace along the line, watching the students reluctantly drop
their wands into the basket. There was a mass groan throughout the
gathered students. "You all surely can tell your wands apart, I expect.
Come, come, if we are to learn anything about the Muggle world, we must

learn how to think non-magically. That means, of course, no wands. Thank
you, Mr. Metzker. Mr. Lupin. Ms. Hildegard. And you, Ms. McMillan.
Thank you. Now. Is that everyone?"
A very unenthusiastic noise of assent came from the students.
"Hup, hup, students," Curry chirped as she laid the basket of wands
next to Hagrid's framework. "Are you implying that you are so dependent
upon magic that you are unable to play a simple, a very simple game?
Hmm?" She glanced around at the students, her sharp nose pointed slightly
upwards. "I should hope not. But before we begin, let us have a bit of
discussion about why it is important for us to study the ways and means of
the Muggle world. Anyone?"
James avoided Curry's eyes as she looked from student to student.
There was silence but for the gusting wind in the nearby trees and the flap
of the banners over the castle.
"We learn about Muggles so that we will not forget the fact that,
despite our myriad differences, we are all human," Curry said crisply and
emphatically. "When we forget our essential similarities, we forget how to
get along, and that cannot but lead to prejudice, discrimination, and
eventually, conflict." She allowed the echo of her words to diminish, and
then brightened. "Besides, the non-magical nature of our Muggle friends
has forced them to be inventive in ways that the magical world has never
achieved. The result, students, are games so simple and elegant that they
require no broomsticks, no enchanted Snitches, no flying Bludgers. The
only things necessary are two nets," she indicated Hagrid's new structures
with a sweep of her left arm, then held something else aloft with her right,
"and one single ball."
"Excellent," Zane said ironically, gazing at the ball in Curry's upraised
hand. "I came to a school of magic to learn to play soccer."
"Around here, we call it 'football'," Damien said sourly.

"Madam Curry," a pleasant female voice said. James looked for the
speaker. Tabitha Corsica stood near the end of the opposite line, all but
cringing in her gold jersey. She wore a black sport cloak over it, tied neatly
at her throat. A group of other Slytherins stood in line near her, the distaste
very clear on their faces. "Why is it necessary, exactly, for us to learn to
play a Muggle, er, sport? Might it not be sufficient to read about Muggle
histories and, ahem, lifestyles? After all, even if they desired to, witches
and wizards are not allowed to compete in Muggle sporting competitions,
according to international magical law. Am I correct?"
"Indeed you are, Ms. Corsica," Curry answered quickly. "And have
you any idea why that might be?"
Tabitha raised her eyebrows and smiled politely. "I'm sure I don't, ma'am."
"The answer to your question lies therein, Ms. Corsica," Curry said,
turning away from Tabitha. "Anyone else?"
A boy James recognized as a third-year Hufflepuff raised his hand.
"Ma'am? I think it's because wizards would throw off the balance of
competition if they used magic."
Curry motioned for him to elaborate. "Go on, Mr. Terrel."
"Well, my mum works for the Ministry and she says there are
international laws that keep wizards from using magic to win Muggle
sporting events or lotteries or contests and the like. If witches and wizards
got into a Muggle sport and used any magic, they'd be able to run circles
around any Muggle, wouldn't they?"
"You are speaking of the International Department for the Prevention
of Unfair Advantage, Mr. Terrel, and you are, more or less, correct." Curry
dropped the ball to the ground at her feet and kicked it lightly. It rolled a
couple of yards across the grass. "To be honest, it is not accurate to say that
witches and wizards are forbidden from competing in Muggle sports. There
are allowances for persons of magical heritage who do wish to compete.

However, they must agree to undergo certain spells that, performed upon
themselves with the help of wizarding officials, temporarily nullify their
magical abilities. If this were not so…"
Professor Curry produced her own wand from an inner pocket of her
cloak and pointed it at the ball. "Velocito Expendum," she trilled. She
pocketed the wand, and then strolled toward the ball. She kicked it in a
casual, offhand manner. The ball virtually exploded off her foot. It shot
across the grass and hit the netting of the goal with a sharp smack, belling
the netting outward as if the ball had been shot from a cannon.
"Well, you get the point," Curry said, turning back to the double line of
students. "The WizardMuggle Sportsmanship Program is, as you might
imagine, distasteful enough that virtually no wizards or witches have
participated in it. That is not to say, however, that many witches and
wizards do not attempt to circumvent these laws each year, upsetting the
fairness of the Muggle sporting world."
"Madam Curry?" Tabitha said again, raising her hand. "Is it true, then,
that the Ministry, and the international magical community, believe
Muggles are unable to cope with the skills of the magical world, and that
witches and wizards must be hobbled in order to be considered equal with
them?"
For the first time, Professor Curry seemed rather ruffled. "Miss
Corsica, that is hardly a discussion for this class. If you wish to discuss the
political machinations of the Ministry--"
"I'm sorry, Madam Curry," Tabitha said, smiling disarmingly. "I was
just curious. This being a class devoted to the study of Muggles, I thought
we might be planning to discuss the obvious disrespect for the Muggle
world that the magical community has shown by assuming them too feeble
to deal with our existence. Please forgive my interruption and carry on."
Curry stared at Tabitha, obviously fuming, but the damage had been
done. James heard whispers all around, saw the sideways looks and nods of

agreement. He noticed that the Slytherin students were still wearing their
blue 'Question the Victors' badges, having pinned them to their gold jerseys.
"Yes," Curry said curtly. "Well, then. Shall we begin?"
For the next forty minutes, she led them through drills and ballhandling techniques. James had been unenthusiastic at first, but began to
warm to the simplistic nature of the sport. Besides disallowing wands,
football apparently demanded that players not even use their hands. The
pure silliness of it amused and intrigued James. Few of the students were
any good at the sport, which allowed them to approach it without being
afraid of getting it wrong. Zane had, of course, played football before,
although he claimed very little skill at it. Sure enough, James noticed that
Zane didn't seem to be much better at running down the field with the ball
than anyone else. As James watched, Zane tangled his feet around the ball
and fell over it. The ball squirted out from under him and Zane simply lay
there, staring up at the marching clouds with a look of thoughtful grimness
on his face.
Tabitha Corsica and her Slytherins stood in a disdainful huddle in a
corner of the makeshift field, one of the footballs lying forlornly in the
grass between them. They made no attempt to practice the drills, and Curry
seemed to have dismissed them, spending her time near the goal, where
students were taking place kicks into the net.
James found that he was enjoying himself. He dug his heels into the
grass, eyed the ball lying twenty feet ahead of him, and then charged it. He
timed his steps carefully, planted his left foot next to the ball and kicked it
solidly with his right. The thump of it leaving his foot was surprisingly
satisfying. The ball sailed through a smooth arc and through the reaching
arms of Professor Curry, who was acting as goalie. There was a thump and
swish as the ball struck the net.
"Very nice, Mr. Potter," Curry called, breathing hard. Her hair had
come askew and hung in loose curls around her thin face. She pushed up
her sleeves and bent to retrieve the ball. "Very nice, indeed."

James smiled despite himself as he trotted to the back of the line.
"Teacher's pet," Zane muttered as James passed.
"Nice foot, Potter," Ted called as the class finally headed back to the
castle. "We need to work that into the Wocket routine somehow. Sabrina,
think of something we can do with that. High-kicking aliens from the planet
Goalatron or something. Got it?"
"Aye, aye," Sabrina called, saluting as she entered the castle gate. "By
the way, Captain, you've got grass stains on your bum. Nice work."

After lunch, James and Zane joined Ralph in the library for a study
period. As they unpacked their books and spread them around a corner
table, Ralph seemed even more melancholy than usual.
"What's going on, Ralph?" Zane said, trying to keep his voice low so
as not to attract the attention of Professor Slughorn, who was monitoring
the library that period. "Your Slytherin buddies tell you your underwear
aren't magical enough or something?"
Ralph looked around cautiously. "I got in trouble this morning with
Professor Slughorn."
"Seems to be going around," James said. "I spent my morning in
McGonagall's office getting detention."
"McGonagall?" Ralph and Zane both exclaimed. "You first, then,
James. McGonagall outranks Slughorn," Ralph said.
James told about the ghost the night before, and about being led to the
Muggle intruder and the chase that followed.

"That was you?" Ralph asked incredulously. "We all saw the broken
window on the way down to breakfast. Filch was covering it with canvas
and muttering away under his breath. He looked like he wanted us to ask
him about it so he could rant and rave a bit."
"Who do you think it was?" Zane prodded James.
"I don't know. All I know is that it was the same guy I saw hiding out
by the forest the other morning. And I think he's a Muggle."
"So?" Zane said, shrugging. "I'm a Muggle. Ralph's a Muggle."
"No you aren't. You're Muggle-born, but you're both wizards. This guy
was just a plain old Muggle. Although, according to McGonagall, that's
impossible. No Muggle can get past the school's Disillusionment Charms."
"Why not? What happens?" Ralph asked.
"Well, for one thing, like I said on the train, Hogwarts is unplottable. It
can't be mapped. Also, no Muggle has ever heard of it. And, even if some
Muggle did just happen to wander into the grounds, the Disillusionment
Charms would guide them around so they didn't even know they were
passing us. If they tried to push through the Disillusionment Charms, they'd
just get all disoriented and doubt themselves. Their compasses would go all
wacky and they'd end up turning around even without knowing it. You can't
just force your way through that kind of Disillusionment Charm. The whole
point of it is to deflect anybody who isn't supposed to get in, and make them
believe the deflection was their idea."
Zane frowned. "So how do any of us get in, then?"
"Well, we're all basically Secret-Keepers, aren't we?" James said, and
then had to explain the idea of being a Secret-Keeper, about how only a
Secret-Keeper could find the secret place or lead others there. "Of course, it
all gets a lot less secure with this many of us. That's why there are laws
against even Muggle parents of students telling anyone."

"Yeah, my parents had to sign some big non-disclosure agreement
before I came," Zane said, as if the very idea was the greatest thing he'd
ever heard. "It said that any 'privileged Muggles' like my parents weren't
allowed to talk to any other Muggles about Hogwarts or the magical
community. If they did, the contract would kick in and their tongues would
curl up until somebody from the Ministry came to release the spell.
Excellent."
"Yeah," James said, "Ted told me about a Muggle-born girl he dated
his third year. Her parents accidentally mentioned Hogwarts at a dinner
party and their hosts called the Muggle paramedics because they thought
both of them were having some sort of weird seizure at exactly the same
time. The Ministry had to do memory modifications on everybody. It was a
mess, but it was pretty funny."
"Cool," Ralph said meaningfully. "Hey, I should've used one of those
Disillusionment Charms on my duffle bag. Would've saved me some
trouble."
Zane turned to him. "So what's the deal, Ralphie? What kind of trouble
are you causing now?"
"It wasn't me!" Ralph protested, and then lowered his voice, glancing
toward the front desk. Slughorn was reclined behind it, peering at a gigantic
book through a pair of tiny spectacles and drinking something frothy in a
stoneware mug. Ralph grimaced and sighed. "Slughorn found my
GameDeck this morning. He said I left it in the common room. He was all
diplomatic about it, but he told me I wanted to be very careful about things
like that. Said I should probably try to leave my 'Muggle toys' at home."
James furrowed his brow. "I thought you said it'd gone missing a few days
ago?"
Ralph became animated. "It did! That's what I mean! I didn't leave it in
the common room! I'm about to chuck the stupid thing in the toilet!

Somebody took it out of my bag and left it out there for Slughorn to find. I
hate those guys!" Ralph's voice had descended to a harsh whisper. He
glanced around quickly, as if he expected his housemates to pop out from
behind the nearest bookcase.
Zane looked thoughtful. "You don't know who took it?"
"No," Ralph said sarcastically. "I'm pretty sure that was the point."
"You have it with you?"
"Yeah," Ralph said, deflating a bit. "I'm not letting it out of my sight
until I can get rid of it. It doesn't work all that well around here anyway.
Too much magic in the air or something." He dug the game console out of
his backpack and handed it under the table to Zane.
James watched as Zane worked the buttons swiftly and the screen
came to life. "If anybody sees you with that thing," Ralph muttered, "it's
yours. Happy Christmas."
Zane pressed buttons fluidly, making the screen flash and cycle. "I'm
just checking to see if the last person who played it made a profile."
"What's a profile?" James asked, leaning to look at the screen.
Zane waved him away without looking up. "Don't look. Slughorn will
see. Ralph, tell Mr. Wizard here what a game profile is."
"It's just a way to keep track of your game," Ralph whispered.
"Before you play, you create a profile, with a name and stuff, usually just
something made up. Then anything you do in the game is recorded under
that profile. When you come back later and log in to that profile, you can
pick up wherever you left off." "You 'the Ralphinator'?" Zane asked, still
working the GameDeck.
"I'm not even going to answer that," Ralph said flatly.

"Here we are then," Zane said, stubbing a finger at the screen. "Does
the name 'Austramaddux' mean anything to you?"
"No," Ralph said, raising his eyebrows. "There's a profile with that
name?"
"Right here. Created around midnight day before last. No other info
and no game progress at all."
James blinked. "No game progress?"
"Nope," Zane said, shutting the device down and passing it back to
Ralph under the table. "Plenty of login time, but no actual gaming. Probably
couldn't figure out that D-pad up and the left shoulder button worked the
super attack. Newbies."
James rolled his eyes. "So what's it mean? Who is Austrawhatsisname?"
"It's just a made up name, like I said," Ralph said, stuffing the
GameDeck into the bottom of his bag. "It doesn't mean anything. Right?"
Ralph said the last to Zane, who was sitting across the table looking
almost comically thoughtful. He had his head tilted, his brow furrowed, and
one corner of his mouth cinched up, dimpling his cheek. After a moment,
he shook his head. "I don't know. It's familiar. Seems like somebody just
mentioned that name, but I can't place it."
"Well, all I know," Ralph said, propping his chin on his hands, "is I'm
dumping this thing off with my dad at the break. I'm sorry I ever saw it."
"Mr. Potter," a voice suddenly boomed nearby. All three of them
jumped. It was Professor Slughorn. He had approached the table and was
suddenly standing behind James' chair. "I had hoped to run into you. So
good to see you, my boy. So good indeed."

James forced a smile as Slughorn patted him on the back. "Thank you,
sir."
"You know, I know your father. Met him when he was a student here
and not yet the famous Auror that he is now, of course." Slughorn nodded
knowingly, winking, as if Harry Potter had not, in fact, been enormously
famous even before he'd become Head Auror. "He's mentioned me, no
doubt. Very close we were at the time. Of course, I've lost track of him in
the years since, what with my teaching, pottering about, turning into an old
man, and his getting married, developing his illustrious career, and making
fine young men like yourself." Slughorn punched James playfully on the
shoulder. "I look forward to catching up with him a bit during his visit next
week. Do tell him to look me up, won't you?"
"I will, sir," James said, rubbing his shoulder.
"Good, good. Well, I'll leave you boys to your studies, then. Carry on,
er, lads," Slughorn said, glancing at Ralph and Zane with no apparent
recognition, despite the fact that he and Ralph had spoken that very
morning.
"Oh. Uh, Professor Slughorn? Could I ask you a question?" It was
Zane.
Slughorn glanced back, eyebrows raised. "Why, certainly, er, Mr.?"
"Walker, sir. It was your Potions One class, I believe. You mentioned
someone named Austramaddux?"
"Ah, yes, Mr. Walker. Wednesday afternoon, was it? Now I recall."
Slughorn glanced distractedly toward the front desk. "Yes, not really
potions-related, but his name did come up. Austramaddux was a historian
and Seer from the distant past. His writings are considered, well,
apocryphal at best. I believe I was making a little joke, Mr. Walker."
"Oh. Well, thank you, sir," Zane replied.

"Never a problem, my boy," Slughorn assured him, glancing around
the library. "And now, I must return to my duties. I'll not distract you
further."
"That was quite a coincidence," Ralph whispered, leaning over the
desk as Slughorn drifted away.
"Not really," Zane reasoned. "He mentioned Austramaddux in class as
a joke. I remember now. It seemed to be a reference to a source that isn't all
that trustworthy or is a little loopy. The way we'd refer to a tabloid or a
conspiracy theory or something. Slughorn's head of Slytherin House, so he
probably uses that same reference among your guys. They'd know it. That's
why the one that made off with your GameDeck knew the name."
"I suppose," Ralph said doubtfully.
"But why?" James asked. "Why use a name that means 'don't trust me,
I'm a loon'?"
"Who knows what dopiness lurks in the hearts of Slytherins?" Zane
said dismissively.
"It just doesn't make sense," James insisted. "Slytherins are usually all
about image. They love all that cloak and dagger stuff, with the dragons'
heads and secret passwords. I just don't get why one of them would use a
name that their own Head of House treats like a joke."
"Whatever," Ralph said. "I have actual homework to do, so if you two
don't mind…"
They all spent the next half hour working on their homework. When it
was time to pack up, Zane turned to James. "Quidditch tryouts tonight,
right?"
"Mine, yeah. Yours, too?"

Zane nodded. "Looks like we'll be sharing the field. Good luck, mate."
Zane shook James' hand.
James felt surprisingly touched. "Thanks! You too."
"Of course, you'll rip it up out there," Zane pronounced airily. "I'll be
lucky to stay on top of a broom. How long have you been flying, anyway?"
"I only ever flew a toy broom around the house when I was little," said
James. "The laws used to be pretty loose about brooms. There were
underage height and distance restrictions, but pretty much anyone of any
age could take one up as long as they were careful not to be seen by any
Muggles. Then, back around the time Dad got his honorary diploma from
Hogwarts, some teenagers got drunk on Firewhisky and tried to play
Quidditch in Trafalgar Square. Since then, the laws have been tightened up.
Now it's almost like getting a Muggle driver's license. We have to take
flight lessons and get certified before we can fly legally. Some wizarding
families will still let their kids go up on a broom in the backyard and stuff,
just to practice. But my dad being an Auror…"
"Both your dad and your mom were big-time Quidditch players,
though, right?" Zane asked, nudging James with an elbow and grinning.
"Even if you don't even know which end of a broom is up, you'll still be
killer on it when you hit the field. Metaphorically, of course."
James smiled uncomfortably.
They headed to their classes. James couldn't help feeling nervous. He'd
nearly forgotten all about Quidditch tryouts. The knowledge that he'd be out
there in a few hours, getting on one of the team brooms for the first time
and trying to be one of the few first years to make the Gryffindor team left
him feeling vaguely sick. He thought of the Snitch he'd grown up playing
with, his famous Dad's famous first Snitch. Back then, he'd never doubted
his future. The way Uncle Ron talked about it, it was almost James'
birthright to be on the Gryffindor Quidditch Team his first year, and James
had never questioned it. But now that it was imminent, he was afraid. The

fears he had felt during the Sorting ceremony all came back. But that had
turned out all right, he reminded himself. He'd been so worried about it,
he'd almost talked the Sorting Hat into sending him to Slytherin House with
Ralph, and he knew now what a mistake that would've been. The key was to
relax. Quidditch, like being a Gryffindor, was in his blood. He had to just
let it happen and not worry.
By dinner, he had to admit his plan wasn't working. He could barely
eat.
"That's right, Potter," Noah nodded, seeing James' untouched plate.
"The less you eat, the less you'll have to throw up when you're in the air. Of
course, some of us see a little well-aimed sick as a great defensive
technique. You've had your first broom lesson with Professor Ridcully,
right?"
James drooped and rolled his eyes, "No. I haven't. First class is on
Monday."
Noah looked serious for a moment, and then shrugged. "Eh, you'll do
fine. Brooms are easy. Lean forward to go, pull back to stop. Lean and roll
into turns. Piece of cake."
"Yeah," Ted agreed. "And all the rain and wind out there will only
make it easier. You probably won't even be able to see the ground, what
with the fog. Easier to trust your guts."
"Just as long as you keep them on the inside," somebody called from
further down the table. There was a chorus of laughter. James dropped his
head onto his folded arms.

The Quidditch pitch was sodden and muddy. Rain fell in great sheets,

beating the ground and creating a dense mist that drenched James to the
skin within the first minute. Justin Kennely, the Gryffindor Captain, led his
group out onto the field, yelling over the steady roar of the rain.
"Quidditch isn't called on account of rain," he bellowed. "Some of the
best Quidditch matches have taken place in weather like this, and much
worse. The nineteen eighty-four Quidditch World Cup was held with a
typhoon off the coast of Japan, you know. The Seekers both flew over sixty
miles chasing the Snitch in gale-force winds. This is a trickle by
comparison. Perfect weather for tryouts."
Kennely stopped and turned in the center of the pitch, rain running
from the tips of his nose and chin. There was a large Quidditch trunk at his
feet, as well as a line of broomsticks neatly laid out on the wet grass. James
saw that most of the house brooms were Nimbus Two Thousands,
serviceable but rather obsolete models. He was a little relieved. If he'd been
asked to fly a new Thunderstreak, he was pretty sure he'd have ended up in
a tree a hundred miles away. At the opposite end of the pitch, James saw the
Ravenclaw team assembling. He couldn't recognize any of them through the
spattering rain and mist.
"All right, then," Kennely called out. "First years, you're up first. I'm
told that some of you haven't yet had your first broom lessons, but thanks to
new regulations and the disclaimers you all signed before school, there's no
reason you can't climb on up and give it a go. Let's see what you can do
before we try anything with the rest of the team. No worries about
formations or stunts, let's just see you get in the air and navigate the field
without knocking each other to your dooms."
James felt his stomach plummet. He had hoped to spend some time
watching the older students practice. Now that he was about to climb onto
his first broom, he wished he had paid more attention to how the players
handled them during the matches he'd been t, rather than looking for the
spectacular stunts and messiest Bludger hits. The other first years were
already moving forward, picking brooms and holding out their hands to
summon them. James forced himself to join them.

He stopped next to a broom and stared down at it. For the first time,
the thing looked like nothing more than a chunk of wood with a brush on
the end instead of a sleek flying apparatus. Rain dripped from the sodden
bristles. James held his hand over it.
"Up!" he said. His voice seemed tiny and silly to him. Nothing
happened. He swallowed past something that felt like a steel marble in his
throat. "Up!" he called again. The broom bobbed, and then dropped back to
the grass with a dull smack. He glanced around at the other first years.
None of them seemed to be having much more luck. Only one of them had
succeeded in raising his broom. The older players were gathered around
watching with amusement, nudging each other. Noah caught James' eye and
hoisted his thumb into the air, nodding encouragingly.
"Up!" James called again, mustering as much authority as he could.
The broom bobbed again and James caught it before it could drop back.
Close enough, he thought. He gave a huge sigh, then slung a leg over the
broom. It floated uncertainly beneath him, barely supporting its own
weight.
Something swooped past him. "Way to go!" Ted cried over the rain as
a first-year girl named Baptiste swept upward, wobbling slightly. Two more
first years kicked off. One of them slipped sideways and swung, dangling
from the bottom of his broom. He hung on for a second or two, then his
fingers slipped from the wet broomstick and he tumbled to the ground.
There was a roar of amiable laughter. "At least you got into the air, Klein!"
somebody called.
James pressed his lips together. Gripping the broomstick so tightly his
knuckles turned white, he kicked off. The broom bobbed up and James saw
the grass glide beneath him, then he began to descend again. His feet
skidded and he wobbled, trying to kick up again. The broomstick arced
upward and picked up speed, but James couldn't seem to make it maintain
any height. He was skidding along the grass again, sending up rooster tails
of muddy water. Hollers of encouragement erupted behind him. He
concentrated furiously, holding his breath and kicking along as the broom
weaved toward the Ravenclaws, who turned to watch. Up, he thought

desperately, up, up, up! He remembered Noah's advice at dinner: lean
forward to go, pull back to stop. He realized he was pulling on the
broomstick, trying to make it rise, but that wasn't right, was it? He had to
lean forward to go. But if he leaned forward, common sense told him he'd
simply plow into the ground. Ravenclaws began to sidle away as he
approached, trying to get out of his path. They were all calling advice and
warnings. None of it made any sense to James. Finally, desperately, James
abandoned his own logic, lifted his feet and leaned forward as far as he
could.
The sense of speed was shocking as the broom rocketed forward. Mist
and rain stung James' face and the grass beneath him became a blur of
muddy green. But he wasn't going up, he was merely streaking along the
ground. He heard shouts and exclamations as he plowed through the
Ravenclaws. They scrambled and leaped to get out of the way. He was still
picking up speed as he leaned forward. Ahead of him, the ramparts of the
grandstand filled his vision, getting alarmingly close. James tried to lean, to
steer aside. He felt himself banking, but not enough. Up, he thought
furiously, he needed to go up! Finally, for lack of a better idea, he leaned
back, pulling the broomstick as hard as he could. The broom responded
instantly and with sickening force, angling into a steep climb. The
grandstands fell away. Rows of seats and banners flickered past, and then
gave way to an enormous, grey sky.
Motion seemed to stop, despite the air and rain that barreled past him.
James risked a glance behind him. The Quidditch pitch looked like a
postage stamp, shrinking and growing hazy behind a raft of clouds and
mist. James gasped, inhaling wind and rain, panic gripping him like giant
claws. He was still climbing. Great grey slabs of cloud barreled past,
buffeting him with shocking darkness and cold. James shoved down on the
broom again, gritting his teeth and stifling a cry of terror.
He felt the broomstick dip sickeningly, almost hurling him off. He
couldn't seem to make it do anything other than drastic altitude changes.
James had lost all sense of direction. He was surrounded by rain and dense
clouds. For the first time, getting on the Gryffindor Quidditch Team seemed
much less important than simply getting both feet back on the ground,

wherever it was. He couldn't gauge how fast he was going or in what
direction. Wind and mist tore at his face, making his eyes water.
Suddenly, there were other shapes nearby. They swooped around him
out of the clouds. He heard distant yelling, calls, his name. One of the
shapes angled toward him and James was shocked to see Zane on a
broomstick, his face chalk white, his blonde hair whipping wildly around
his head. He motioned at James as he banked, but James couldn't make
sense of his gestures.
"Follow me!" Zane shouted over the wind as he swooped by.
The other figures resolved as they centered on James. He saw Ted and
Gennifer, the Ravenclaw. They moved into formation around him. Ted was
calling directions to James, but he couldn't make them out. He concentrated
on angling the broom in the direction that Zane was flying. The clouds
barreled past again like freight trains, and James lost sight of the other
flyers. There was a buffeting shock of cold air, and then the ground opened
up beneath James, swaying with enormous finality. The Quidditch pitch
was rising to meet him, its matted grass looking very hard and unforgiving.
Zane was still ahead of James, but he was pulling back, slowing, gesturing
wildly with one hand. James pulled back on his own broomstick, trying to
emulate Zane, but the force of the wind roaring past fought him. He battled
it, turning, wrestling the broomstick up so that he feared it might snap
beneath him. And then his rain-slicked hands slipped, fumbled and he fell
backwards, gripping the broom desperately with only his legs. He was
spinning wildly, end over end. James felt the force of Zane whipping past,
Zane's shouts diminishing behind him with horrible speed. The ground
swooped around his head, reaching up to embrace him, and James heard the
sound of it, a huge, low roar, getting louder and louder until…
There was a horrible jolt. James squeezed his eyes shut, trying not to
hear the sound of his body hitting the ground. There was no sound. He
risked opening his eyes just a tiny bit, and then looked around with relief
and surprise. He was hovering five feet above the center of the Quidditch
pitch, still straddling his broom, but not holding on. Rain hissed all around
him as the Ravenclaws and Gryffindors stared at him. Zane, Ted, and

Gennifer drifted down around James, gawping at him. Then Ted turned.
James followed his eyes.
Ralph stood on the edge of the field, his robes soaked through and
sticking to him, an umbrella lying abandoned at the edge of the
grandstands. Every muscle in Ralph's body seemed to be tensed, straining,
as he held his ridiculous, enormous wand straight out, pointing it at James.
He was trembling visibly. Rain streamed down his face, matting his hair to
his forehead.
"Do I have to keep this up?" he said through gritted teeth. "Or can I let
go now?"

5. The Book of Austramaddux
"Don't think of it as looking like a miserable failure on a broomstick,"
Zane said afterwards as they all sat in the Ravenclaw common room.
"Think of it as giving Ralphie here a chance to look positively brilliant!"
James said nothing. He sat slumped at the end of the couch, his head
propped miserably on his hand.
"Besides, if I hadn't hopped on my broomstick and took off after you, I
don't think I'd have been able to figure it out at all. It was just a matter of
not thinking about it, really."
"Spectacular stuff out there, Walker," an older student said as he
passed the couch, ruffling Zane's damp hair.
"Yeah," another one said from across the room. "Normally, first years

tryouts are just for laughs. With you, we get the laughs and the skills."
There was a round of laughter and scattered applause. Zane beamed,
soaking it up.
"Seriously, though," Ralph said from where he sat on the floor, his
back to the fire, "how'd you do that? Flying is supposed to be pretty tough
to master."
"I dunno, honestly," Zane said. "I saw James heading into the
stratosphere and I just took off after him. I hardly even knew I was doing it
until the very end, when I realized I was nose-diving straight into the pitch.
I pulled up at the last second, just as the human torpedo here went past me,
and I thought, 'Look at me! I'm flying!' Maybe it was all those racing games
and flight simulators I grew up playing with my dad. The feel of it all just
made sense to me." Zane suddenly seemed to realize this conversation
wasn't lifting James' mood much. "But enough about me and my broom.
What about you, Ralphie?"
Ralph blinked thoughtfully, and then picked up his wand from where it
lay on his wet cloak. It was just as huge and ridiculous as always, still with
the tip whittled down and painted lime green, but nobody was laughing at it
anymore. "I don't know. It's like you said, isn't it? I just didn't think about it.
I saw James falling and I thought of the feather in Flitwick's class. Next
thing I know, I'm pointing my wand at him and yelling--"
Several students, including Zane, ducked and called out as Ralph
flicked his wand ahead of him. Ralph smiled sheepishly. "Get a grip,
everybody. I wasn't gonna say it."
"Ralph, you're the real deal, mate," Zane said, recovering. "You went
from floating a feather to a human body in one class, you know? My boy's
got talent."
James stirred. "If you two are done congratulating yourselves, I'm
gonna go find a hole and live in it for the rest of the year."
"Hey, I'll bet Grawp's girlfriend has room in her cave," Ralph said.

Zane did a double take at Ralph, open-mouthed.
"What?" Ralph said. "It'll save him some time looking!"
"He's joking," Zane said, glancing at James. "I couldn't tell at first."
"Congratulations on making the team," James said quietly, standing
and collecting his cloak from a hook by the fire.
"Hey, really," Zane said awkwardly. "I'm sorry about how things
worked out. I didn't know it was that important to you. Really."
James stood still for several seconds, staring into the fire. Zane's
expression of regret struck him deeply. His heart ached. His face heated and
his eyes burned. He blinked and looked away.
"It wasn't that important to me, really," he said. "It was just really,
really important."
As the door closed behind James, he heard Ralph say, "So who was it
important to?"
James walked slowly, his head down. His clothes were still damp, and
his body ached from the jolt of Ralph levitating him at the end of his long
dive, but he barely noticed those things. He had failed. After the victory of
becoming a Gryffindor, he'd been cautiously confident that Quidditch, too,
would work out. Instead, he'd ended up looking like a complete fool in front
of both the Gryffindors and Ravenclaws. Far from the spectacular aerobatic
displays his dad had legendarily performed, James had to be rescued from
killing himself. There was no surviving this kind of failure. He'd never live
it down. Nobody was making fun of him now, at least to his face, but what
would they say next year when he showed up for tryouts again? He couldn't
even bear to think about it.
How would he tell his dad? His dad, who would be coming at the
beginning of next week to see him and hear of his exploits. He'd
understand, of course. He'd tell James Quidditch didn't matter, that the

important thing was for him to be himself and have fun. And he'd even
mean it. And still, knowing that didn't make James feel any better.
Zane had made the Ravenclaw team, though. James felt a stab of bitter
jealousy at that. He felt immediately sorry for it, but that didn't make the
jealousy go away. Zane was Muggle-born. And an American, to boot!
Quidditch was supposed to be a baffling mystery to him, and James was
supposed to be the instinctive flyer, the rescuing hero. Not the other way
around. How could things have gone so totally wrong so fast?
When he reached the Gryffindor common room, James ducked around
the edge of the room, avoiding the eyes of those gathered there, laughing
with their friends, listening to music, discussing homework, snogging on
the couch. He ducked up the stairs and into the sleeping chamber, which
was dark and quiet. Back in his dad's day, the dorms had been separated by
year. Now James was glad that he shared the room with some of the older
years. They usually brought reassurance that all of this was survivable. He
needed some of that reassurance now, or at least someone to notice his
misery and validate it. He sighed deeply in the empty room.
James washed up in the little bathroom, changed, then sat on his bed,
looking out into the night. Nobby watched him from his cage by the
window, clicking his beak from time to time, wanting to get outside and
find a mouse or two, but James didn't notice him. The rain had finally
exhausted itself. The clouds were breaking up, revealing a great silvery
moon. James watched it for a long time, not knowing what he was waiting
for, not even really knowing he was waiting. In the end, what he was
waiting for didn't happen. No one came upstairs. He heard their voices
below. It was Friday night. Nobody else was going to bed early. He felt
utterly lonely and bereft. He slid under the covers and stared out at the
moon from there.
Eventually, he slept.

James spent most of his weekend moping about in the Gryffindor
Common room. He knew that neither Ralph nor Zane could get into the
common room without the password, and he was in no mood to see them or
anyone else. He read his assigned homework chapters and practiced some
wandwork. He was particularly annoyed to discover that he couldn't get his
practice feather to do any more than scuttle pathetically around the table.
After twenty minutes, he grew exasperated, growled a word his mother
didn't know he knew, and slammed his wand onto the table. It shot a stream
of purple sparks, as if surprised at James' outburst.
Saturday night's detention with Argus Filch came. James found
himself following Filch around the corridors with a bucket and a giant, stiffbristled scrubbing brush. Occasionally, Filch would stop and, without
turning, point at a spot on the floor, the wall, or a detail of a statue. James
would look and there would be a bit of graffiti or a patch of long troddenupon gum. James would sigh, dip the brush, and begin to scrub with both
hands. Filch treated James as if he was personally responsible for each bit
of defacing he scrubbed. As James worked, Filch muttered and fumed,
lamenting about the much better sorts of punishments he had been
permitted to mete out in years past. By the time James was allowed to
return to his rooms, his fingers were cold, red and sore, and smelled of
Filch's ugly brown soap.
On Sunday afternoon, James went for a moody wander around the
grounds and ran into Ted and Petra, who were lounging on a blanket,
ostensibly working out star charts on sheets of parchment.
"Now that Trelawney's sharing Divination class with Madame
Delacroix, we have actual homework," Ted complained. "Used to be we just
had to look at some tea leaves and make up doom and gloom predictions.
That was kind of fun, actually."
Petra was leaning against a tree, shuffling maps and charts on her lap,
comparing them to a huge book of constellations that lay open on the
blanket. "Unlike Trelawney, Delacroix seems to have the quaint notion that
astrology is a hard science," she said, shaking her head in disgust. "How a

bunch of rocks rolling around in space know anything about my future is
beyond me."
Ted told James to stick around and keep them from getting too much
done. Sensing that he wasn't interrupting anything personal, and that neither
Ted nor Petra were going to bring up James' disastrous Quidditch tryouts,
James flopped onto the blanket and peered at the book of star charts. Black
and white drawings of planets, each emblazoned with names and
illustrations of mythical creatures, circled and spun slowly on the pages,
their orbits drawn as red ellipses.
"Which one of these planets is the Wocket from?" James asked drily.
Petra turned a page. "Hardy-har."
James turned the enormous pages of the constellation book slowly,
examining the moving planets and other-worldly astrological symbols. "So
how do Professor Trelawney and Madame Delacroix get along, then?"
James asked after a minute. He remembered Damien implying there would
be some friction between them.
"Oil and water," Ted replied. "Trelawney tries to make nice, but she
obviously hates the voodoo queen. For Delacroix's part, she doesn't even
pretend to like Trelawney. They're from two different schools of thought, in
every sense of the word."
"I like Trelawney's school better," Petra muttered, scribbling a note on
her parchment.
"We all know what you think, dear," Ted soothed. He turned to James.
"Petra likes Trelawney because she knows that, at its heart, divination is
really just a set of random variables that you use to order your own
thinking. Trelawney thinks it's all mystical, of course, but she still knows
it's just a bunch of totally subjective mumbo-jumbo. Petra is a facts girl, so
she likes that even if Trelawney takes all this stuff seriously, she doesn't try
to make it, you know, rigid."

Petra sighed and clapped her book shut. "Divination isn't science. It's
psychology. At least Trelawney gets that in practice, if not in belief.
Delacroix…" She threw the book onto the pile next to her, rolling her eyes.
"We have a test this week," Ted said mournfully. "An actual Divination
test. It's all about some crazy astrological event that's happening later this
year. The linings of the planets or whatever."
James looked quizzical, "The linings of the planets?"
"Alignment of the planets," Petra said patiently. "Actually, it is a pretty
big deal. It only happens once every few hundred years. That's science.
Knowing what silly mythical creature each planet represents, what it was a
god of to some bunch of dotty primitives, and what it means to 'the
harmonics of the astrological precognition matrix' isn't."
Ted looked at James and frowned. "Someday, we'll get Petra to reveal
her true feelings about it."
Petra smacked him over the head with one of the larger star charts.
Later, at dinner, James saw Zane and Ralph sitting together at the
Ravenclaw table. He saw Zane look over once, and was glad that he didn't
try to come over and talk to him. He knew it was extremely petty of him,
but he was still sick with jealousy and the shame of his embarrassment. He
ate quickly, and then wandered out of the Great Hall, unsure where he
would go.
The evening was pleasant and cool as the sun dipped behind the
mountains. James explored the perimeter of the grounds, listening to the
song of the crickets and throwing stones into the lake. He went to knock on
the door to Hagrid's cabin, but there was a note on the door, written in large,
clumsy letters. The note said that Hagrid was up in the forest until Monday
morning. Spending time with Grawp and Grawp's lady giant friend, James
figured. It was beginning to get dark. James turned and headed dejectedly
back in the direction of the castle.

He was on his way up to the common room when he decided to make a
side trip. He was curious about something.
The trophy case was lit with a series of lanterns, so that the cups,
plaques, and statues each glinted brightly. James walked slowly along,
looking in at the team photos of decades-past Quidditch teams, their
uniforms outdated, but their smiles and expressions of hearty invincibility
eternally unchanged. There were gold and bronze trophies, antique
Snitches, game Bludgers strapped down with leather belts, but still wiggling
slightly as he passed.
James stopped near the end and looked in at the Triwizard Tournament
display. His dad smiled the same uncomfortable smile, looking impossibly
young and unruly. James leaned in and looked at the picture on the other
side of the Triwizard Cup, the one of Cedric Diggory. The boy in the picture
was handsome, guileless, with the same expression on his face that James
had seen in the old Quidditch team photos, that expression of perpetual
youth and seamless confidence. James studied the photo. The expression
was what had kept him from making the connection the first time he'd seen
the picture.
"It was you, wasn't it," James whispered to the picture. It wasn't really
a question.
The boy in the picture smiled his smile, nodding slightly, as if in
agreement.
James hadn't expected an answer, but as he started to straighten up,
something changed on the plaque below the Triwizard Cup. The engraved
words sank into the silver plaque, then, after a moment, new words
surfaced. They spelled out slowly, silently.
James Potter
Harry's son
A shiver thrilled down James' back. He nodded. "Yes," he whispered.

The words sank back into nothing. Several seconds went by, and then
more words drifted up.
How long
Has it been
James didn't understand the question at first. He shook his head
slightly. "I… I'm sorry. How long has it been since what?"
The letters receded and spelled again, slowly, as if they took great
effort.
Since I died
James swallowed. "I don't know, exactly. Seventeen or eighteen years,
I think."
The letters faded out very slowly. No more formed for almost a
minute. Then:
Time is so strange here
It feels longer
Shorter
James didn't know what to say. A sense of great loneliness and sadness
had crept into the corridor, filling the space, and James himself, like a cool
cloud.
"My--" James' voice caught. He cleared his throat, swallowed, and
tried again. "My dad and mum, Ginny, used to be Weasley… they talk about
you. Sometimes. They… they remember you. They liked you."
The letters faded, surfaced.

Ginny and Harry
I always knew
There was something there
Cedric's ghost seemed to be seeping away, leaking out of the air of the
corridor. The letters faded slowly. James had wanted to ask more questions,
had meant to ask about the Muggle intruder, how he was getting in, but now
it seemed unimportant. He just wanted to say something to lessen the pall of
sadness he'd sensed in Cedric's presence, but he couldn't think of anything.
Then the letters came once more, spelling out very faintly and slowly.
Are they happy
James read the question, considered it. He nodded. "Yeah, Cedric.
They are. We are."
The letters evaporated as soon as James spoke, and there was
something like a sigh all around him, long and somehow exhausted. When
it was over, James glanced around the corridor. He could tell he was alone
again. When he looked back at the plaque below the Triwizard Cup, it had
reverted to its normal state, covered in elaborate, engraved words. James
shivered, hugged himself, then turned and began to walk back toward the
main hall. The ghost had finally spoken, and it was Cedric Diggory.
We are happy, James thought. As he climbed the steps to the common
room, he realized it was true. He felt a little silly about the way he'd
mooned around all weekend, stirring his jealousy and sense of failure like a
stew. At this moment, it all seemed unimportant. He was just glad to be
here, at Hogwarts, with new friends, challenges, endless adventures before
him. He ran along the hallway to the portrait hole, wanting nothing more at
that moment than to spend the last couple of hours of his first weekend at
Hogwarts having some fun, laughing, forgetting the silliness of the whole
Quidditch disaster. He realized, reluctantly, that on some level, it was even
a little funny.

As he entered the common room, he stopped and looked around.
Ralph and Zane were there, sitting with the rest of the Gremlins around the
table by the window. They all looked up.
"There's our little alien," Zane said happily. "We're trying to work your
broom-handling skills into the routine. What do you think of a Roswell
crash kinda gig? Ralph's got his wand all ready to catch you."
Ralph wiggled his wand and smiled sheepishly. James rolled his eyes
and went to join them.

James awoke late Monday morning. He ran into the Great Hall hoping
to grab a piece of toast before Transfiguration class and met Ralph and
Zane, who were just coming out.
"No time, mate," Ralph said, hooking James' arm and turning him
around. "Can't be late to first class. McGonagall teaches it and I've heard
bad, bad things about what she does to tardy students."
James sighed and trotted along with them through the noisy, busy
corridors. "I hope she doesn't do terrible things to students whose stomachs
growl during class as well."
Zane handed something to James as they walked. "Check that out
when you get a chance. I already showed it to Ralphie and it blew his mind,
didn't it? I've marked the spot for you." It was a thick, bedraggled book. The
cover was clothbound in frayed fabric that had once probably been red. The
pages were yellowed, threatening to fall out of the binding in chunks.
"What is it?" James said, unable to read the embossed title, which was
ghostly faint with age. "Between Jackson and Flitwick, I've got enough
reading to last me until next term."

"You'll be interested in this, believe me. It's the Book of Parallel
Histories, Volume Seven," Zane said. "I got it from the Ravenclaw library.
Just read the section I marked."
"Ravenclaw has a private library?" Ralph asked, struggling to wrestle
his Transfiguration textbook out of his overstuffed backpack.
"Do you Slytherins have dragons' heads on your walls?" Zane
shrugged. "Sure. To each his own."
As they filed toward the Transfiguration classroom, they passed
through a cluster of students standing beside the door. Several of them wore
the blue 'Question the Victors' badges. More and more students seemed to
be wearing them as the days went by. Signs on some of the bulletin boards
had identified the badges as the mark of a club called the 'Progressive
Element'. James was dismayed to see that not all of the students wearing
them were Slytherins.
"Your dad's coming today, eh, Potter?" an older boy called out, smiling
crookedly. "Going to have a little meeting with his cronies from the States?"
James stopped and looked at the speaker. "He's coming today, yeah,"
he said, his cheeks going red. "But I don't know what you mean about his
'cronies'. He hasn't even met the Americans before. Maybe you should read
a little before you open your mouth."
"Oh, we've been reading, believe me," the boy replied, his smile
disappearing. "More than you and your father would like us to be, I'm sure.
Your kind can't hide the truth forever."
"Hide the truth?" James said, anger overcoming his caution. "What's
that supposed to mean?"
"Read the badges, Potter. You know exactly what we're talking about,"
the boy said, hoisting his backpack and moving casually down the hall with

his friends. "And if you don't, you're even stupider than you look." He
turned his back on James.
James blinked in anger and amazement. "What was that all about?"
Ralph sighed. "Come on, let's get a seat. I'll tell you, although I don't
understand much of it myself."
But they had no time to discuss it before class. Headmistress
McGonagall, who had taught
Transfiguration to James' mum and dad, taught it still, and with
apparently the same degree of businesslike briskness. She explained the
basic wand motions and commands, illustrating by transforming a book into
a herring sandwich. She even asked one of the students, a boy named
Carson, to eat a portion of the sandwich. Afterward, she transformed the
sandwich back into the book and showed the class that the book still bore
the bite marks Carson had made. There were sounds of awe and
amusement. Carson looked at the bitten chunks and pressed his hand to his
stomach, a look of thoughtful dismay on his face. Near the end of class,
McGonagall instructed the students to produce their wands and practice the
motions and commands on a banana, which they were to attempt to
transfigure into a peach.
"Persica Alteramus, emphasis on first syllables only. Don't expect to
make much progress your first time," she called over the noise of the
students' attempts. "If you produce even a banana with a hint of peach fuzz,
we will consider that a success for today. Do be careful, Miss Majaris!
Small circular flicks only, please!"
Zane stared furiously at his banana and flicked his wand at it. "Persica
Alteramus!" There was no apparent change. He pressed his lips together.
"Let's see you try, James."
Shrugging, James raised his wand and flicked it, speaking the
command. The banana flopped over, but remained decidedly a banana.

"Maybe they're transforming on the inside," Zane said hopefully.
"Maybe we should peel it and see if it's all peachy in there, eh?"
James thought about it, and then shook his head. They both tried again.
Ralph watched. "More wrist movement. You guys look like you're directing
jetliners."
"So easy to criticize, so hard to create," Zane said between attempts.
"Let's see you have a go, Ralphinator."
Ralph seemed reluctant to try. He fingered his wand, keeping it under the
edge of the desk.
"Come on, Ralph," James said. "You've been pretty excellent at
wandwork so far. What are you worried about?"
"Nothing," Ralph said, a little defensively. "I don't know."
"Rats!" Zane said, dropping his wand arm and grabbing the banana
with the other. He plunked his wand onto the table and pointed the banana
at it. "Maybe I'd have better luck doing it this way, you think?"
James and Ralph stared at him. He rolled his eyes. "Oh, sheesh, come
on Ralph. Make with the peach. You know you can do it. What are you
waiting for?"
Ralph grimaced, then sighed and raised his gigantic wand. He flicked
it lightly at his banana and said the command flatly, almost as if he was
trying to get it wrong. There was a flash and a noise like a pine knot
exploding in a fireplace. The rest of the class heard the noise and glanced
over at Ralph. A puff of heavy smoke lingered on the table in front of
Ralph, who had pushed back from it, his eyes wide and troubled. As the
smoke dissipated, James leaned in. Ralph's banana was still lying there,
completely untouched.
"Well," Zane said into the sudden silence, "that was a whole lotta--"

A small, squishy noise came from Ralph's banana. The peel split
slowly and began to separate, opening like a pulpy yellow flower. There
was a prolonged gasp from the students as a green tendril grew out of the
center of the peeling banana. It seemed to sniff the air as it grew, twisting
and lengthening like a vine. The tendril began to straighten as it rose,
snaking up from the table with a graceful, writhing motion. More tendrils
came out of the banana. They spread along the surface in a starburst pattern,
found the edges of the table, and curled under them, gripping tightly.
Branches began to separate from the main shoot as it grew, thickening and
turning lighter, until it was a woody, yellowish grey. Foliage sprouted from
the branches in great, sudden bursts, growing from tender shoots to full leaf
in a matter of seconds. Finally, as the tree reached a height of about four
feet, there came a series of soft pops. Half a dozen peaches sprouted from
the ends of the lower branches, weighing them down. Each one was fuzzy,
plump, and pristine.
James tore his glance away from the tree and looked around the room.
Every eye was on the perfect little peach tree Ralph had conjured, mouths
dropped open, wand hands still frozen in mid-flick. Headmistress
McGonagall stared at the tree intently, her mouth a frown of complete
surprise. Then motion returned to the room. Everyone exhaled and
spontaneous, awed applause broke out.
"He's mine!" Zane called, standing and throwing an arm around
Ralph's shoulders. "I saw him first!" Ralph broke his eyes away from the
tree, looked at Zane and smiled rather blankly. But James remembered the
look on Ralph's face when the tree was growing. He hadn't been smiling
then.
Moments later, in the corridor outside, Zane spoke through a mouthful
of peach. "Seriously, Ralph. You're creeping me out a bit, here. That's some
serious wizarding you've got going on. What's the deal?"
Ralph smiled his uncertain, worried smile again. "Well, actually…"
James looked at Ralph. "What? Tell, Ralph!"

"All right," he said, stopping and pulling them into a windowed alcove.
"But this is just a guess, right?"
James and Zane nodded enthusiastically, gesturing for Ralph to go on.
"I've been practicing a lot with some of the other Slytherins at night,
you know," Ralph explained. "Just the basic stuff. They've been teaching
me a few things. Disarming Spells and some tricks and pranks, stuff to pull
on your enemies."
"What enemies have you got already, Ralph?" Zane asked
incredulously, licking peach juice from his fingers.
Ralph flapped his hand impatiently. "You know, just average enemies.
It's just the way the guys in my house talk. Anyway, they say I'm better than
average. They think I'm not really just a plain old Muggle kid who got some
random magic genes. They think maybe one of my parents is from one of
the great wizarding families and just don't know it."
"Seems like a pretty big thing not to know, doesn't it?" James said
doubtfully. "I mean, you said your dad made Muggle computer stuff, didn't
you?"
"Well, yeah, him," Ralph said dismissively, and then dropped his
voice. "But my mum… I didn't tell you guys she was dead, did I? No," he
answered himself. "Of course not. Well, she is. She died when I was really
little. I never even knew her. What if she was a witch? I mean, what if she
was from one of the great old pureblood wizarding families and my dad
never even knew it? It happens, you know. Magic types fall in love with
Muggles and can never tell them the secret their whole lives. Pureblood
types don't like it, I guess, but still…" He trailed off and looked back and
forth at Zane and James.
"Well," James said slowly, "sure. I guess it's possible. Stranger things
have happened."

Zane raised his eyebrows, considering. "Would explain a lot, wouldn't
it? Maybe you're, like, a prince or something. Maybe you're an heir to
fabulous riches and power and stuff!"
Ralph grimaced and stepped out of the alcove. "Let's not get carried
away. It's just a guess, like I said."
James walked with Zane and Ralph until it was time for his next class.
Neither of the other two had Herbology class with him, so he told them he'd
see them that afternoon and struck off across the grounds toward the
greenhouses.
Professor Longbottom greeted James by name as he entered, smiling
warmly. James had always liked Neville, even though he was much quieter
and thoughtful than his dad or Uncle Ron. James knew the stories of how
Neville had fought back during his last year of school, when Voldemort had
taken over the Ministry and Hogwarts had been under his control. In the
end, Neville had been the one to cut off the head of the great snake, Nagini,
Voldemort's last link to immortality. Still, it was hard to imagine the gaunt
and rather clumsy professor doing such things as he arranged pots and
planters on the table at the front of the greenhouse classroom.
"Herbology is--" Neville began, gesturing and knocking over one of
the smaller pots. He interrupted himself, righting the pot quickly, spilling
dirt onto his papers. He looked up and smiled in a harried sort of way.
"Herbology is the study of… well, herbs, of course. As you can see." He
nodded to the greenhouse at large, which was packed with hundreds of
plants and trees, all growing in a bewildering variety of containers. James
thought Professor Longbottom would probably be quite interested in
examining the peach tree currently growing on the Transfiguration room
table.
"Herbs are the root, er, so to speak, of much of the most fundamental
practices of magic. Potions, medicine, wand construction, even many
charms, all rely on the essential cultivation and processing of magical
plants. In this class, we will be studying the many uses of some of our most

important vegetable resources, from the lowly bubotuber to the rare
Mimbulus mimbletonia."
Out of the corner of James' eye, he saw something moving. A plant
was spreading a vine along a windowsill next to a first-year girl, who was
furiously scribbling the names Neville was listing off. The vine separated
from the windowsill, tapped lightly along her back, then curled into her
earring. The girl's eyes widened and she dropped her quill as the vine began
to pull.
"Ow! Ow, ow, ow!" she cried, scrambling sideways off her chair and
clapping a hand to her ear. Neville looked around, saw the girl and came
bounding towards her.
"Yes, grab the vine, Miss Patonia! That's right." He reached her and
began to carefully extract the vine from her earring. It twisted slowly as he
pried it loose. "You've discovered our Larcenous ligulous, or rather, it has
discovered you. I apologize for not warning you before you sat down. Bred
by pirates several hundred years ago because of its innate attraction to
sparkly objects, which it uses to magnify sunlight for photosynthetic
purposes. Nearly extinct, after having been systematically hunted and
burned during the Purges." Neville found the base of the plant and wrapped
the vine methodically around it, pinning its tip into the dirt with a diamond
topped hoop. Patonia rubbed her ear and stared at the vine as if she'd like to
do some burning of her own.
Neville returned to the front table and began talking the class through
the long line of potted plants he'd arranged there. James yawned. The heat
of the greenhouse was making him rather drowsy. In an attempt to stay
awake, James reached to get his parchment and quill from his backpack.
His hand bumped the book Zane had given him. He pulled it out, along with
his parchments, and cradled it in his lap. When he was sure Neville had
descended deep enough into talking about his favorite subject not to notice,
James opened the book to where Zane had marked it. His interest was
immediately piqued by the heading at the top of the page: Feodre
Austramaddux. He leaned over the book and read quickly.

Proponent of Reverse Precognition, or the art of recording
history through counter-chronological divination, the Seer and
historian Austramaddux remains known to modern wizardry
mainly for his fantastic accounts of the last days of Merlinus
Ambrosius, legendary sorcerer and founder of the Order of
Merlin. Austramaddux's account, which is recorded in its entirety
in his famous Inverse Historie of the Magickal Worlde (see
chapter twelve) deals with his acquaintance with Merlinus at the
end of the latter's career as special magical regent to the kings of
Europe. Having grown disenchanted with the corruption of the
magical world as it became 'infected' by influences from the
growing non-magical kingdoms, Merlinus announced his plan to
'quit the earthly realm'. Further, he claimed he would return to the
society of men, centuries or even millennia later, when the
balance between the magical and non-magical worlds was more,
as Austramaddux put it, 'ripe for his ministrations'. These
predictions have been the source of many plots and conspiracies
in the centuries since, usually led by those of a revolutionary bent,
who believe that the return of Merlinus would facilitate their
plans to overcome and subjugate the non-magical world via
politics or outright war.
James stopped reading. His mind was racing as he considered the
implications of what he'd just read. He'd known of Merlin his whole life, in
much the same way that Muggle children knew about Saint Nicholas: not as
a historical figure, but as a sort of mythical cartoon character. It had never
occurred to James to doubt that Merlin had been a real person, but it had
also never occurred to him to wonder what kind of a man Merlin might
have been. His only references were silly sayings he'd grown up with, like
'by Merlin's beard' or 'what in the name of Merlin's pants', none of which
implied much about the character of the great sorcerer. According to
Austramaddux, Merlin had been a sort of magical advisor to Muggle kings
and leaders. Was it possible that, in Merlin's time, witches and wizards lived
openly in the Muggle world, with no laws of secrecy, no hiding, no
Disillusionment Charms? And if so, what did Merlin mean by saying the
wizarding world had been 'infected' by the Muggles? Even more, what had
he meant by the creepy prediction that he'd return when the world was 'ripe

for his ministrations'? It was no wonder that dark wizards through history
had tried to make Merlin's prediction come true, to bring the great sorcerer
back into the world somehow. Dark wizards had always sought to rule the
Muggle world, and apparently, there was some basis to believe that Merlin,
the greatest and most powerful wizard of all time, would help them bring
that about.
A sudden thought occurred to James, and his eyes widened. He had
first heard the name
Austramaddux via a profile created by a Slytherin. Slytherin had
always been the house of dark wizards intent on domination of the Muggle
world. What if the enigmatic mention of Austramaddux wasn't just a
meaningless coincidence? What if it was a sign of a new dark plot? What if
the Slytherin who had made that profile was part of a plot to facilitate the
predicted return of Merlinus Ambrosius, who would lead a final war against
the Muggle world?
James closed the book slowly and gritted his teeth. Somehow, the
moment he thought of it, it seemed completely true. That explained why a
Slytherin would use a name that even his Head of House thought was a
joke. The Slytherin knew it wasn't, and would soon be victorious in a plot
that would prove it. James' heart pounded as he sat and thought furiously.
Who could he tell? Zane and Ralph, of course. They might have already
thought of it. His dad? James decided that he couldn't. Not yet, at least.
James was old enough to know that most adults wouldn't believe such a
story from a kid even if the kid could provide pictures that proved it.
James didn't know exactly what he could do to stop such a plot, but he
knew what he had to do next. He had to find out which Slytherin it was that
had taken Ralph's GameDeck. He had to find the Slytherin that used the
name Austramaddux.
With that in mind, James bolted from the greenhouse as soon as class
was over, forgetting entirely that tonight was the night his dad, Harry Potter,
was arriving for his meeting with the Americans.

As James ran across the grounds, he became aware of the noise of a
crowd. He slowed, listening. Shouts and chants mingled with the babble of
raucous, excited voices. As he turned the corner into the courtyard, the
noise became much louder. A mob of students roiled around the courtyard,
gathering from all directions even as James watched. Most were simply
curious to see what the commotion was about, but there was a very active
group in the center, marching, chanting slogans, some holding large, handpainted signs and banners. James saw one of the banners as he approached
crowd, and his heart sank. It read 'End Ministry Auror Fascism'. Another
sign waved and poked at the sky: 'Tell the TRUTH, Harry Potter!'
James circled around the group, trying to stay inconspicuous. Near the
steps of the main hall, Tabitha Corsica was being interviewed by a woman
with garish purple cat's-eye glasses and an overly-attentive expression. With
growing unease, James recognized her as Rita Skeeter, lead investigative
reporter for the Daily Prophet, and one of his dad's least favorite people.
As he passed, Tabitha glanced sideways at him and made a slight shrug
and smile, as if to say so sorry about this, but these are hard times and we
all do what we must…
Just as James was about to climb the steps into the main hall, the
Headmistress appeared, striding purposefully into the sunlight with a very
grim expression on her face. She placed her wand to her throat and spoke
from the top step, her voice echoing all around the courtyard, cutting
through the noise of the crowd.
"I won't ask what the meaning of this is, as I find it disappointingly
obvious," she said sternly, and James, who had known Minerva
McGonagall in a peripheral way for most of his life, thought he had never
seen her so enraged. Her face was deathly pale, with livid red high on her
cheeks. Her voice, still ringing around the courtyard, was controlled but
steely with conviction. "Far be it from me to disabuse you of the right to
maintain whatever ill-founded and preposterous notions many of you might

have picked up, but let me assure you, regardless of what you might choose
to believe, it is not the policy of this school to allow students to insult
esteemed guests."
The signs sagged, but did not lower completely. James saw that Rita
Skeeter was staring up at the Headmistress with a look of hungry
excitement on her face, her Quick-Quotes Quill scribbling wildly on a pad
of parchment. McGonagall sighed, gathering her composure. "There are
proper avenues for expression of disagreement, as you all know. This…
display… is neither necessary nor appropriate. I expect you all, therefore, to
disperse immediately with the knowledge that you have most certainly…,"
she allowed her gaze to fall upon Rita Skeeter, "made your point."
"Madam Headmistress?" a voice called, and James didn't need to turn
to know that it was Tabitha Corsica. There was a pregnant silence as the
entire courtyard held its breath. James could hear Rita Skeeter's quill
scratching avidly.
McGonagall paused, studying Tabitha meaningfully. "Yes, Miss
Corsica?"
"I couldn't agree with you more, ma'am," Corsica said smoothly, her
beautiful voice echoing around the courtyard. "And for my own part, I hope
that we can all choose to pursue these issues in a more reasonable and
relevant manner, as you suggest. Might it be too soon to propose that we
make this the subject of the first All-School Topical Debate? That would
allow us to approach this sensitive issue respectfully and thoroughly, in the
manner I'm sure you'd agree it deserves."
McGonagall's jaw was like iron as she stared down at Corsica. The
pause was so long that Tabitha actually looked away. She glanced around
the courtyard, her composure faltering slightly. The QuickQuotes Quill had
caught up to the proceedings. It hovered over the parchment, waiting.
"I appreciate your suggestion, Miss Corsica," McGonagall said flatly,
"but this is neither the time nor the place for discussion of the debate team

calendar, as you can surely imagine. And now," she let her gaze sweep over
the courtyard critically, "I consider the matter closed. Anyone who wishes
to continue this discussion may do so much more comfortably in the
privacy of their rooms. I'd advise you to be off now, before I send Mr. Filch
out to take a census."
The crowd began to break up. McGonagall saw James, and her
expression changed. "Come along, Potter," she said, beckoning impatiently.
James climbed the steps and followed her back into the shadow of the Hall.
McGonagall was muttering angrily, her tartan robes swishing as she stalked
into a side corridor. She seemed to expect James to follow, so he did.
"Ridiculous rabble-rousing propagandists," she fumed, still leading
James into what he recognized as the staff offices. "James, I'm sorry you
had to witness that. But I'm even sorrier that such an ugly bit of rumormongering has found a foothold within these walls."
McGonagall turned and opened a door without breaking stride. James
found himself entering a large room full of couches and chairs, small tables
and bookshelves, all arranged haphazardly around an enormous marble
fireplace. And there, standing to greet him with a crooked smile was his
dad. James grinned and ran past McGonagall.
"James," Harry Potter said delightedly, pulling the boy into a rough
hug and ruffling his hair. "My boy. I'm so glad to see you, son. How's
school?"
James shrugged, smiling happily but feeling suddenly shy. There were
several other people present he didn't recognize, all of them looking at him
as he stood with his father.
"You all know my boy, James," Harry said, squeezing James' shoulder.
"James, these are some representatives from the Ministry who've come
along with me. You remember Titus Hardcastle, don't you? And this is Mr.
Recreant and Miss Sacarhina. They both work for the Department of
Ambassadorial Relations."

James shook hands dutifully. He did remember Titus Hardcastle when
he looked at him, although he hadn't seen him for a long time. Hardcastle,
one of his dad's head Aurors, was squat and thick, with a square head and
very tough, weathered features. Mr. Recreant was tall and thin, dressed
rather fussily in pinstriped robes and a black derby. His handshake was
quick and loose, rather like holding a dead starfish. Miss Sacarhina,
however, didn't shake hands. She smiled hugely at James and squatted
down to his level, examining him up and down.
"I see so much of your parents in you, young man," she said, tilting her
head and affecting a conspiratorial manner. "Such promise and potential. I
do hope you'll be joining us for the evening."
In answer, James looked up at his dad. Harry smiled and put both
hands on James' shoulders. "We're having dinner tonight with the Alma
Alerons. Do you want to come along? Apparently, we're having true
American food, which could mean anything from hamburgers to, well,
cheeseburgers, as far as I can guess."
"Sure!" James said, smiling. Harry Potter smiled back and winked.
"But first," he said, addressing the rest of the group, "we'll be joining
our friends from Alma Aleron for a look at some of their proprietary magic.
We're due to meet them in the next ten minutes, and I've asked a few others
to join us as well. Shall we?"
"I'll not be joining you, I'm afraid," McGonagall said briskly. "It
appears that I will need to be keeping a close tab on certain elements of the
student populace during your tour, Mr. Potter. I apologize."
"Understood, Minerva," Harry said. It always sounded strange to
James that his dad called the Headmistress by her first name, but she
seemed to expect it from him. "Do what you have must, but don't worry
about squashing every little outburst. It's hardly worth the effort."
"I'm not sure I agree with you about that, Harry, but I expect I'd not be

able to maintain perfect order regardless. I shall see you this evening, then."
With that, the Headmistress turned and left the room brusquely, still fuming.
"Shall we, then?" Miss Sacarhina inquired. The group began to move
toward a door on the opposite side of the room. As they walked, Harry bent
toward his son and whispered. "I'm glad you'll be coming along tonight.
Sacarhina and Recreant aren't exactly the most pleasant travelling
companions, but Percy insisted I bring them. I'm afraid this whole affair's
gone all political."
James nodded wisely, not knowing what that meant, but happy to be
invited into his dad's confidence, as always. "So how'd you travel?"
"Floo Network," Harry answered. "Didn't want to make any more
visible entry than necessary. Minerva warned us about the demonstration
the P.E. types were planning."
It took James a moment to realize his dad was talking about the
Progressive Element. "She knows about those guys?" he asked, surprised.
His dad put a finger to his lips, nodding slightly toward Sacarhina and
Recreant, who were ahead of them, talking in low voices as they walked.
"Later," Harry mouthed.
After a few turns, Mr. Recreant opened a large door and stepped out
into sunlight, the rest following. They descended a broad stone stairway
which led down to a grassy area bordered by the Forbidden Forest on one
side and a low stone wall on the other. Neville Longbottom and Professor
Slughorn were standing near the wall, talking. They both looked up as the
group approached.
"Hi, Harry!" Neville said, grinning and coming forward to meet him.
"Thanks for inviting me and Horace along for this. I've been curious about
it ever since the Americans got here."
"Harry Potter, as I live and breathe," Slughorn said warmly, taking
Harry's hand in both of his. "Very good of you indeed to ask us to come.

You know I'm always interested in new developments in the international
magical community."
Harry led the group to a gate in the stone wall. It opened onto a neat
flagstone path that meandered toward the lake. "Don't thank me, either of
you. I only brought the both of you along so that you could ask all the smart
questions and make sense of what they show us."
Slughorn laughed indulgently, but Neville only smiled. James figured
that his dad was probably telling at least part of the truth, and only Neville
knew it.
The group approached a large canvas tent that was pitched on a low
rise overlooking the water. An American flag hung limp on one of the tent's
poles, over a flag emblazoned with the Alma Aleron crest. A pair of
American students stood talking nearby. One of the students saw the group
and acknowledged them with a slight nod. He called toward the tent.
"Professor Franklyn?"
After a moment, Franklyn emerged from the side of the tent, wiping
his hands on a large cloth. "Ah! Greetings, visitors," he said graciously.
"Thank you so much for coming."
Harry shook Franklyn's outstretched hand. It was apparent that they
had already met earlier and arranged this gathering. Harry turned and made
introductions all around, finishing with James.
"Of course, of course," Franklyn said, beaming at James. "Young Mr.
Potter is in my class. How are you today, James?"
"Good, sir," James answered, smiling.
"As you should be, on such a fine day," Franklyn said seriously,
nodding approvingly. "And now that the pleasantries have been seen to, do
follow me, my friends. Harry, you were interested in seeing the means by
which we care for our vehicles, is that right?"

"Very much so," Harry said. "I wasn't here to see your arrival, of
course, but I heard all about your interesting flying vehicles. I am very
eager to see them, as well as your storage facility. I have heard quite a lot of
speculation about it, although I admit I understand very little of it."
"Our Trans-Dimensional Garage, yes. Virtually none of us understands
very much about it, I am afraid," Franklyn said dubiously. "In fact, if it were
not for our technomancy expert, Theodore Jackson, none of us would have
the slightest idea how to maintain it. Speaking of whom, he sends his
apologies for not being able to be here for the tour. He will be joining us
this evening and will be happy to discuss it with you then, should you have
any questions for him."
"As I'm sure we will," Titus Hardcastle said in his low, gravelly voice.
James followed his dad around to the open side of the tent and nearly
tripped over his own feet when he looked inside. The tent was quite large,
with complicated wooden struts and frameworks supporting it. All three of
the Alma Aleron flying vehicles were parked inside it, leaving enough room
for neat arrangements of tool chests, maintenance equipment, extra parts,
and several men in work clothes who moved among the vehicles busily. The
strangest thing about the tent, however, was that the back was missing.
Where James was sure he should have seen the hanging canvas wall he had
seen from the outside, there was simply open air, looking out onto a view
that was definitely not any view of the Hogwarts grounds. Neat, red brick
buildings and huge, horny trees could be seen in the distance beyond the
tent's missing back wall. Even stranger, the lighting of the scene was
completely different than the bright noon sunlight of the Hogwarts grounds.
On the other side of the tent, the scene was lit with a pale pink light, the
huge, fluffy clouds in the distance tinged with gold. The trees and grass
seemed to sparkle, as if covered in morning dew. One of the workmen
nodded at Franklyn, then turned and walked out into the strange scene,
brushing his hands on his overalls.
"Welcome to one of the worlds few trans-dimensional structures,"
Franklyn said, gesturing proudly. "Our Garage, which simultaneously

stands both here, in temporary residence on the grounds of Hogwarts castle,
and in its permanent location in the east quadrangle of Alma Aleron
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States."
"Great Ghost of Golgamethe," Slughorn said, stepping forward slowly.
"I've read of such things, but never thought I'd live to see one. Is this a
naturally occurring temporal anomaly? Or is this orchestrated via Quantum
Transference Charms?"
"That's why I invited you, Professor," Harry said, smiling and
examining the interior of the tent.
"The former," Franklyn said, stepping between the Dodge Hornet and
the Volkswagen Beetle to make room for the group. "This is one of only
three known dimensional plurality bubbles. What that means, I am told, is
that this tent exists within a dimensional bridge, allowing it to span two
places simultaneously. Thus, we can see on one side the noontime grounds
of Hogwarts," he gestured out the open side of the tent through which they
had entered, "what you might think of as our side of the transdimensional
bubble. And on the other side," he spread a hand toward the dim landscape
seen magically through the rear of the tent, "the dawn-time quadrangle of
Alma Aleron University, the other side of the bubble. Meet Mr. Peter
Graham, our head mechanic."
A man straightened up from the open hood of the Stutz Dragonfly. He
smiled and waved. "Good to meet you lady and gentlemen. So to speak."
"Likewise," Neville, who was closest, said a bit faintly.
"Mr. Graham and his men are all in the American half of the bubble,"
Franklyn explained. "Seeing as they are specifically trained to work on our
fleet, we find it best to let them handle the care and maintenance even while
we travel. As you may guess, however, they are not, technically, here." To
illustrate, Franklyn reached toward one of the workmen who was squatted
near the Hornet. Franklyn's hand swept through the man as if he were
smoke. The man seemed not to have noticed.

"So," Harry said, frowning slightly, "they can hear us, and see us, and
we can see and hear them as well, but they are still there, in America, and
we are still here, at Hogwarts. Therefore, we cannot touch them?"
"Precisely," Franklyn said.
James spoke up. "Then how is it we can touch the cars and so can your
mechanics in the States?"
"Excellent question, my boy," Slughorn said, patting James on the
back.
"It is indeed," Franklyn agreed. "And that is where things get a bit, er,
quantum. The simple answer is that these cars, unlike us, are multidimensional. You've all heard, I expect, the theory that there are more
dimensions beyond the four we are familiar with, yes?"
There were nods. James hadn't heard of any such theory, but he
thought he understood the idea nonetheless.
Franklyn went on. "The theory states that there are extra dimensions,
unknowable by any of our senses, but just as real. Effectively, Professor
Jackson has created a spell that enables these vehicles to tap into those
dimensions, allowing them to exist simultaneously in two places anytime
they are inside the walls of this Garage. While they are parked here, they
cross the dimensional bubble and exist in both places at once."
"Remarkable," Slughorn said, running his hand along the fender of the
Hornet. "So, effectively, your crew can service the vehicles regardless of
where they travel, and you are afforded a view of home, even if you cannot
access it."
"Very true," agreed Franklyn. "It is indeed both a great convenience
and a touch of comfort."
Neville was interested in the cars themselves. "Are they actual
mechanized creatures or are they charmed machines?"

James lost interest as Franklyn launched into a detailed explanation of
the winged cars. Walking over to the other side of the tent, he looked out
into the grounds of the American school. The sun had just peeked over the
roof of the red brick building nearby, casting its rose-colored light onto a
clock tower. It was just after six in the morning there. How utterly strange
and wonderful, James thought. Tentatively, he reached out his hand, curious
to see if he could feel the coolness of the morning air in that other place. He
felt a strange, numbing feeling in his fingertips, and then they brushed
unseen canvas. Sure enough, he couldn't pass through or even feel the air of
the place.
"Too bad you can't come on over, friend," a voice said. James looked
up. The head mechanic was leaning against the fender of the Beetle,
smiling. "It's almost breakfast and today's mushroom omelet day."
James grinned. "Sounds good. It's lunchtime, here."
"Professor Franklyn," James heard Mr. Recreant's voice say rather
loudly, "how does this, er, structure comply with the International Magical
Coalition's ban on unproven or dark magic? Being virtually one of a kind, it
would seem difficult to establish much of a safety record."
"Ah, too true," Franklyn agreed, looking steadily at Mr. Recreant. "We
have been fortunate enough not to have experienced any problems so far,
thus we have gone more or less unnoticed by the Coalition. In any case, it
would be difficult to prove the threat of any danger. Even a total failure of
Professor Jackson's trans-dimensional spellwork would mean, at worst, that
we'd have to take a taxi home instead of our beloved cars."
"Excuse me," Miss Sacarhina interjected, affecting a rather plastic
smile. "A what?"
"I'm sorry, Miss," Franklyn said. "A cab. A rented Muggle vehicle. I
was being somewhat ridiculous, of course."

Sacarhina cinched her smile a notch tighter. "Ah. Yes, of course. I tend
to forget the American wizard's fascination with Muggle machinery. I
cannot imagine how it slipped my notice."
Franklyn seemed oblivious to her sarcasm. "Well, I won't speak for my
compatriots, but I admit I do enjoy tinkering. Part of my appreciation for
the Garage is that it allows me to oversee the maintenance of my fleet. I
never get tired of figuring out how things work, and trying to make them
work just a little bit better."
"Mm-hmm," Sacarhina nodded primly, glancing around at the cars.
One of the mechanics touched a wire under the hood of the Stutz
Dragonfly and there was a spurt of blue sparks. With a squeak and a jerk,
the long wings of the car unfolded, beating the air several times before
screeching to a halt again. Neville had had to duck backward to avoid being
pummeled by them.
"Good reflexes, Neville," Harry said. "That was almost a case of 'fly
swats man'."
Neville glanced at Harry and saw the suppressed smile. Hardcastle
cleared his throat. "We should be moving along, ma'am, gentlemen."
"Of course," Harry agreed. "Mr. Franklyn."
Franklyn raised a hand. "I insist you call me Ben. I'm three hundred
years old, give or take, and being called 'mister' just reminds me of that.
Will you indulge me?"
Harry grinned. "Of course, Ben. I look forward to seeing you at dinner
tonight. Thank you very much for showing us your remarkable Garage."
"A pleasure," Franklyn said, beaming proudly. "I've got a very
interesting thought-powered printing press back home I'd love to show you
when you come to visit us in the States. I'd even show you the bell I helped

cast back during the birth of our country, but the blasted thing's broken and
they won't let me fix it."
"Don't listen to him," Graham, the mechanic, called after them. "Or
he'll have you believing he forged the copper for the Statue of Liberty."
There was laughter from the rest of the crew.
Franklyn grimaced, and then waved Harry and the group on.
"Tonight, my friends. Bring your appetite. And perhaps a competent
Freezing Charm. I understand that Madame Delacroix is overseeing the
gumbo."

6. Harry's Midnight Meeting
James hurried back to the Gryffindor common room after classes,
shrugging out of his school robes as he ran up the steps. He changed into a
jacket and an evening cloak, matted his hair down with water from the
basin, frowned critically at himself in the mirror, and then ran back down
the steps two at a time to meet his dad.
Harry was waiting with Neville by the portrait of Sir Cadogan.
"A spirited tussle it was," Cadogan was saying, leaning nonchalantly
against the frame of his painting and waving his sword illustratively. He
was talking to Neville, who looked extremely uncomfortable. "I saw the
whole thing of course. Took place right there. Bollox Humphreys was his
name, and he fought like a man possessed. Lost, of course, but noble as a
thousand kings. Spilt most of his innards right where you're standing and

still swung his sword with more strength than a mountain troll. Gallant
man. Gallant!"
"Ah, James, here we are," Neville said loudly as James approached.
Harry and Sir Cadogan looked up. Harry smiled, looking his son up and
down.
"Your mum will be glad to know you're putting that cloak to use."
"To be honest, this is the first I've had it out of the trunk," James
admitted, grinning sheepishly.
Harry nodded, "And it'll go right back into the trunk after tonight,
won't it?"
"Guaranteed."
"Good man," Harry acknowledged. James fell into step next to his dad
as they headed toward a staircase.
"Wait!" Cadogan cried, sheathing his sword and jumping into the
center of his frame. "Have I ever told you about the Battle of the Red
Mages? Bloodiest massacre these walls have ever seen! Happened just at
the foot of those stairs! Next time, then. Courage!"
"Who's that?" James asked, looking back over his shoulder.
"You'll get to know him," Neville said. "Enjoy your ignorance while
you can."
As they walked, James listened as his dad told Neville about the
current happenings at the Ministry. There had been an arrest of several
individuals involved in a counterfeit Portkey operation. More trolls were
being seen in the foothills, and the Ministry was stepping up patrols to keep
the troublesome idiots from venturing into Muggle territories. The new
Minister, Loquatious Knapp, was preparing to give a speech on expanded

trade with Asian wizarding communities, including lifting the ban on flying
carpets and something called 'shades'.
"In other words," Harry said, sighing, "things are more or less the way
they always are. Little breakouts here and there, small conspiracies and
squabbles. Politics and paperwork."
"What you mean," Neville said, smiling crookedly, "is that peace can
be a pretty boring thing for an Auror."
Harry grinned. "I guess you're right. I should be thankful my job isn't
any more interesting, shouldn't I? At least I get to spend most nights at
home with Ginny, Lil, and Albus." He glanced down at James. "And take
on an ambassador's assignment that just happens to afford me the chance to
see my boy during his first week at Hogwarts."
"I understand he's only been to McGonagall's office once so far,"
Neville commented mildly.
"Oh?" Harry said, still eyeing James. "And what for?"
Neville raised his eyebrows at James as if to say you have the floor.
"I, er, broke a window."
Harry's smile hardened a bit around the edges. "I look forward to the
story of how that happened," he said thoughtfully. James felt his dad's stare
like it was a set of tiny weights.
They reached a double doorway with both doors thrown wide open.
Delicious smells wafted down the hall.
"Here we are," Neville said, standing aside to allow Harry and James
to enter first. "The Americans' quarters during their stay. We've given them
most of the southwest turret. Had it temporarily refitted with a recreational
area, common room, kitchen, and staff to suit their needs."

"Sounds nice," Harry said, examining the space. The common room
was, in fact, rather small, with circular walls, high, rough-beamed ceilings,
a cramped stone fireplace, and only two very tall, narrow windows. The
Americans had, however, been very busy. There were bearskin rugs on the
floors and tall, vibrantly colored tapestries hung on the walls, positioned
over the stone staircase that spiraled the room. A three-story bookcase was
crammed with gigantic volumes, most accessible only via a very ricketylooking wheeled ladder. The most amazing detail, however, was a mindbogglingly complex armature of brass gears, joints, and mirrored lenses that
hung from the ceiling, filling the upper chamber of the room and moving
very slowly. James stared up into it, delighted and amazed. It made a very
faint squeaking and clicking as it moved.
"You've discovered my Daylight Savings Device, my boy," Ben
Franklyn said, coming from a large arched doorway beneath the spiral
staircase. "One of my absolute necessities whenever I travel for long
periods, despite the fact that it's a veritable bear to pack, and the calibrations
when I set it up again are simply dreadful."
"It's wonderful," Neville said, also staring up into the slowly ratcheting
network of mirrors and wheels. "What does it do?"
"Let me demonstrate," Franklyn said eagerly. "It works best in full
daylight, of course, but even the stars and moon of a bright night can
provide adequate light. An evening such as this should prove most
satisfactory. Let me see…"
He moved to a battered high-backed leather chair, settled himself into
it carefully, and then consulted a chart on the wall. "Third of September,
yes. Moon is in the fourth house, it is, let me see… approximately a quarter
past seven. Jupiter is approaching the final leg of… mm-hmm…"
As Franklyn muttered, he produced his wand and began pointing it at
bits of the Device. Gears began to spin as parts of the Device whirred to
life. Bits of the armature unfolded as other bits pivoted, making room.
Mirrors began to slide, positioning behind cycling groups of lenses, which

magnified them. Ratchets clicked and shuttled. The entire device seemed to
dance slowly within itself as Franklyn directed it with his wand, apparently
making calculations in his head as he went. And as it moved, something
began to form within it. Ghostly beams of rose-colored light began to
appear between the mirrors, pencil thin, turning motes of dust into tiny
specks of fire. There were dozens of the beams, brightening, swiveling into
place, and eventually forming a complicated geometric tracery. And then, in
the center of the tracery, shapes shimmered into place. James turned on the
spot, watching raptly as tiny planets coalesced, formed out of colored light.
They spun and orbited, tracing faint arcs behind them. Two larger shapes
condensed in the very center, and James recognized them as the sun and the
moon. The sun was a ball of rose light, its corona spreading several feet
around it. The moon, smaller but more solid, was like a silver Quaffle,
equally divided between its light and dark sides, turning slowly. The entire
constellation weaved and turned majestically, dramatically lighting the
brass Device and spilling delightful patterns of light over the entire room.
"Nothing so healthy as natural light," Franklyn said. "Captured here,
through the windows, and then condensed within a carefully calibrated
network of mirrors and lenses, as you can see. The light is filtered with my
own optical spellwork for clarity. The final result is, well, what you see
here. Excellent for the eyesight, the blood, and one's health overall,
obviously."
"This is the secret to your longevity?" Harry asked, rather breathlessly.
"Oh, certainly this is a small part of it," Franklyn said dismissively.
"Mostly, I just prefer it to read by at night. Certainly, it's more fun than a
torch." He caught James eye and winked.
Professor Jackson appeared in the archway. James saw him glance
from Franklyn to the light display overhead, a look of tired disdain on his
face. "Dinner, I am told, is served. Shall we adjourn to the dining room or
shall I have it brought in here?"
Along with Harry, James, Neville, and the representatives from the
Ministry, most of the Hogwarts teaching staff was present, including

Professor Curry. To James' consternation, Curry told Harry all about James'
skills on the football field, assuring him that she would work to see that said
skills were developed to their fullest extent.
Contrary to his dad's suspicion, the meal was remarkably diverse and
enjoyable. Madame Delacroix's gumbo was the first course. She carried it to
the table herself, somehow not spilling a drop despite her blindness. Even
more curiously, she directed the ladle with her wand, a gnarled and evillooking length of graperoot, dishing a portion into each bowl at the table
while she stared at the ceiling and hummed rather disconcertingly. The
gumbo was indeed spicy, thick with chunks of shrimp and sausage, but
James liked it. Next came fresh rolls and several varieties of butter,
including a brown and sticky goo that Jackson identified as apple butter.
James tasted it carefully on a hunk of bread, and then spread a gigantic
dollop on the remainder of his roll.
The main course was rack of lamb with mint jelly. James didn't
consider this typical American food, and commented as much.
"There's no such thing as American food, James," Jackson said. "Our
cuisine, like our people, is simply the sum total of the various world
cultures we come from."
"That's not entirely true," Franklyn interjected. "I am pretty sure we
can lay undisputed claim to the spicy buffalo wing."
"Will we be having those tonight?" James asked hopefully.
"My apologies," Franklyn said. "It is rather difficult to collect the
ingredients for such things unless you possess Madame Delacroix's unique
voodoo capabilities."
"Is that so?" Neville inquired, helping himself to more mint jelly. "And
what abilities are those, Madame?"
Madame Delacroix composed herself, having given Professor

Franklyn a wilting, albeit blind glare. "De old man, he don't know what he
speaks of. I just know about de sources he not as familiar with, bein' more
int'rested in his machines and gizmos."
Franklyn's smile, for the first time, seemed icy. "Madame Delacroix is
being modest. She is, you may already know, one of our country's foremost
experts on Remote Physio-Apparition. Do you know what that is, James?"
James didn't have the slightest idea, and yet something about the milky
gaze of Madame Delacroix made him reluctant to say so. Franklyn was
watching him earnestly, expecting a response. Finally, James shook his
head. Before Franklyn could explain, however, Harry spoke up.
"It just means that the Madame has, let's say, different means of getting
around."
"'Different means' is one way to put it," Franklyn chuckled. James felt
uneasy, hearing that chuckle. There was something nasty in it. He noticed
that Franklyn was emptying what was likely his third glass of wine. "Think
about it, James. Remote Physio-Apparition. Can you factor it out? It means
that poor old blind Madame Delacroix can project herself, send a version of
herself out into the wide world, collect things, and even bring them back.
And the beauty of it is, the version of herself she can project isn't poor or
old or blind. Isn't that right, Madame?"
Delacroix stared blindly at a spot just over Franklyn's shoulder, her
face a grim mask of anger. Then she smiled, and as James had seen on the
day of the Americans' arrival, the smile transformed her face. "Oh, deah
Professah Franklyn, you do tell such tales," she said, and her strange bayou
accent seemed even thicker than usual. "My skills were never as grand as ye
speak of, and they're far less now that I'm de old woman ye see before ye. If
I could project such a sight, I hardly think I'd ever let anyone see me as I
really am."
The tension in the room broke and there was laughter. Franklyn smiled
a bit tightly, but let the moment pass.

After dessert, Harry, James, and the rest of the Hogwartians retired to
the common room again, where Franklyn's Daylight Savings Device had
reproduced a condensed and shimmering version of the Milky Way. It lit the
room with a silvery glow that James thought he could very nearly feel on
his skin. Jackson offered the adults an after dinner cocktail in tiny glasses.
Neville barely touched his. Both Miss Sacarhina and Mr. Recreant sampled
tiny sips and gave forced, rather strained smiles. Harry, after holding it up
to the light to look through the amber liquid, downed his in one gulp. He
squinted and shook his head, then looked inquiringly at Jackson, unable to
speak.
"Just a little of Tennessee's finest, with a little wizard afterburn thrown
in," Jackson explained.
Finally, Harry thanked the Americans and bid them goodnight.
Retracing their steps through the darkened corridors, Harry walked
with his hand on James' shoulder.
"Want to stay with me in the guest quarters, James?" he asked. "I can't
guarantee I'll be able to see much of you after tonight. I'll be busy all day
tomorrow, meeting with the Americans, keeping our friends from the
Department of Ambassadorial Relations from making 'an international
incident' of themselves, then I'm off home again. What do you say?"
"Sure!" James agreed instantly. "Where are your quarters?"
Harry smiled. "Watch this," he said quietly, stopping in the middle of
the hall. He turned around and paced idly, looking thoughtfully up at the
dim ceiling. "I need… a really cool room with a couple of beds for me and
my boy to sleep in tonight."
James stared at his dad quizzically. Several seconds went by as Harry
continued to pace back and forth. He seemed to be waiting for something.
James was about to ask him what he was up to when he heard a sudden
noise. A low grind and rumble came from the wall behind him. James

turned around just in time to see the stonework alter and shift, reforming
itself around a huge door that hadn't been there a moment before. Harry
glanced down at his son, smiled knowingly, then reached and opened the
door.
Inside was a large apartment, complete with a set of draped bunk beds,
framed Gryffindor posters on the walls, a wardrobe containing Harry's trunk
and James' school robes, and a fully equipped washroom. James stood
inside the door, opening and closing his mouth, speechless.
"The Room of Requirement," Harry explained, plopping onto a low,
overstuffed chair. "I can't believe I never told you about it."
James got ready for bed, but his dad simply changed into a pair of
jeans and a sweater and freshened up in the basin.
"I need to go out for a little while," he told James. "After dinner
tonight, Professor Franklyn asked me to meet him privately. He wanted
some time to discuss a few things outside of tomorrow's official meetings."
There was something about the way Harry said this that told James his dad
preferred a private chat over an official meeting anyway. "I shouldn't be too
long, and I'll be just down the hall, in the Americans' quarters. Breakfast
tomorrow, you and me?"
James nodded happily. He still hadn't brought himself to tell his dad
about his abysmal failure on the Quidditch pitch, and he was happy to put it
off as long as possible.
When Harry was gone, James lay in the top bunk, thinking about the
events of the night. He remembered the sudden nastiness of Franklyn,
which had surprised him. It was almost as great a change in character as the
change that came over the voodoo queen, Madame Delacroix, when she
smiled. Thinking of Madame Delacroix reminded James of the way she'd
spooned the gumbo, unseeingly, operating the ladle with her creepy black
wand, never spilling a drop.

James realized he was simply too excited to sleep. He slid off the top
bunk and prowled the room restlessly. His dad's trunk sat open in the
bottom of the wardrobe. James looked into it idly, then stopped and looked
closer. He knew what it was when he saw it, but was surprised his dad
would have brought it along. What use would he have for it here? James
considered it. Finally, he reached into the trunk and withdrew his dad's
Invisibility Cloak, unfolding its smooth, heavy length as it came.
How many times had the young Harry Potter explored the grounds of
Hogwarts safely hidden away under this cloak? James had heard enough
tales, from both his dad, Uncle Ron and Aunt Hermione, to know that this
was an opportunity not to be missed. But where to go?
James thought for a moment, and then smiled a long, mischievous
smile. He slipped the cloak over his head, just the way he used to on the
rare occasions when Harry would let him play with it. James vanished. A
moment later, the door of the Room of Requirement seemed to open all by
itself, rocking slowly on its huge hinges. After a pause, it shut again,
carefully and silently.
Tiptoeing, James headed for the quarters of the representatives of
Alma Aleron.

James had only gotten halfway down the corridor when there was a
flicker of motion. Mrs. Norris, Filch's awful cat, had darted across the
passage that intersected the corridor twenty feet ahead. James stopped, his
breath caught in his chest. "Shouldn't you be dead by now, you ratty old
carpet sample?" he whispered to himself, cursing his luck. Then, worse,
Filch's voice came echoing down the passage.
"That's it, dearest," he said in a singsong voice. "Don't let the little
buggers escape. Teach them a lesson that will have their little mousey kin

shivering with fear." Filch's shadow leaked across the floor of the
intersection, weaving as he approached.
James knew he was invisible, but he couldn't help feeling that he
should hunker up against the wall. He sidled into a narrow space between a
doorway and a suit of armor, trying to keep his breathing shallow and silent.
He peered around the elbow of the suit of armor.
Filch stepped into the intersection, his gait rather unsteady. "Find a
hidey-hole, did they, precious?" he asked the unseen Mrs. Norris. He
reached into his coat and produced a silver flask. He took a swig, wiped his
mouth with his sleeve, and then spun the cap back on. "There they are,
coming this way again, my dear. Come, come."
Two mice scurried into the intersection, looping and dodging as they
approached Filch's feet. Mrs. Norris pounced, batting at them, but the mice
scampered away, darting along the wall toward where James was hiding.
Mrs. Norris followed, growling. To James' great chagrin, the mice
scampered behind the suit of armor and wriggled under the edge of the
Invisibility Cloak. Their cold little feet scurried over James' bare toes, then
they stopped between his feet, sniffing the air as if sensing a hiding place.
James tried to push them out from under the cloak with his toes, but they
refused to go.
Mrs. Norris padded down the corridor intently, her whiskers twitching.
She hunkered along the front of the suit of armor's base, one paw
outstretched, then pounced around it, stopping inches from the edge of the
Invisibility Cloak. She looked around, her eyes flashing, sensing the mice
were nearby, but not seeing them.
"Don't tell me those dumb animals have bested you, my dear," Filch
said, scuffling down the corridor toward them.
James watched Mrs. Norris. She had encountered the Invisibility Cloak
before, years earlier. James knew the stories, having been told them by both
Aunt Hermione and Uncle Ron. Maybe she remembered the smell of it. Or
maybe she was sensing James himself, his heat or scent or the beat of his

heart. She raised her eyes, narrowing them, as if she knew he was there and
was trying very hard to see him.
"Don't be a sore loser, my dear Mrs. Norris," Filch said, coming closer
still. He was almost near enough that if he reached out, he might
inadvertently touch James. "If they got away, they'll just tell their rodent
friends about you. It's a victory either way you slice it."
Mrs. Norris inched closer. The mice between James' feet were getting
nervous. They tried to hide under each other, scooting further back between
James' feet. Mrs. Norris raised a paw. To James' horror, she brushed the
edge of the Invisibility Cloak with it. She hissed.
The mice, hearing the hiss, panicked. They scampered out from under
the cloak, darting right between Mrs. Norris' feet. She jumped at the sight of
them, ducking to watch them scurry away into the corridor. Filch laughed
raspily.
"They put the spook on you, precious! I'd never have expected it.
There they go! After them, now!"
But Mrs. Norris half turned back toward James, her baleful orange
eyes narrowed, her slit pupils flared wide. She raised her paw again.
"Go, Mrs. Norris, go!" Filch said, his mood swinging to annoyance.
He shoved her with his foot, scooching her away from James and toward
the mice, which had disappeared further along the corridor. Filch's foot
caught the edge of the cloak, pulling it away from James' feet. He felt cool
air on his toes.
Mrs. Norris looked back toward James and hissed again. Filch,
however, was too sodden to take heed. "They went that way, you blind old
thing. I'd have never guessed a pair of dumb animals would get the jump on
you. Let's go, let's go. There're always more near the kitchens." He ambled
on into the shadows of the corridor and eventually Mrs. Norris followed,
throwing occasional rankled glances back towards James.

When they turned the corner, he exhaled shakily, composed himself,
then continued down the corridor, running lightly and feeling extremely
lucky.
When he reached the door to the Americans' quarters it was closed and
bolted. In the darkness, James could hear the voices of his dad and Franklyn
inside, but they were muffled and unintelligible. He was about to give up
and head downstairs, thinking he might perhaps find Cedric's ghost again,
or even the Muggle intruder, when the voices inside the door grew louder.
The bolt socked back and James scrambled out of the way, forgetting for a
moment that he was hidden under the cloak. He pressed himself against the
wall on the opposite side of the corridor just as the door creaked open.
Franklyn emerged first, talking quietly. Harry followed, closing the door
with the practiced stealth of any good Auror. "Practice being quiet when
you don't need to," Harry had told his son on many occasions, "and you
won't need to think about it when you do."
"I find it's safer to move around during a private conversation,"
Franklyn was saying. "Even our own quarters are subject to eavesdropping
by those whose philosophies differ from my own. At least this way no,
unwanted ears can hear the entirety of our dialogue."
"Funny thing," Harry said. "I spent so much time sneaking around
these halls and corridors when I was a student that even as an adult, it's
difficult to avoid the instinct to skulk and sneak, for fear that I might get
caught and be given detention."
The two men began to walk slowly, apparently meandering in no
particular direction. James followed at a safe distance, taking care not to
breathe too heavily or stumble against any of the statues or suits of armor
that lined the walls. "Things haven't changed much, you know," Franklyn
said. "Now, however, we have worse things than detention to worry about."
"I don't know," Harry said, and James could hear the wry smile in his
voice. "I had some pretty horrible detentions."

"Mm," Franklyn murmured noncommittally. "The history of both our
schools has involved some unsavory characters and unnecessary ugliness.
Your Miss Umbridge, our Professor Magnussen. Your Voldemort, our…
well, honestly, we have no one in our history that compares to him. Indeed,
he was a terrible threat to all of us while he lived. Our duty is to ensure that
such things don't happen again."
"Am I to assume that this meeting, then, is an opportunity to compare
notes about such threats? Off the record, so to speak?" Harry asked
seriously.
Franklyn sighed. "One can never have too many friends or too many
sources, Mr. Potter. I am not an Auror, and I do not have any official
authority or policing jurisdiction even in my own country. I am just an old
teacher. Old teachers, however, are often underestimated, as you certainly
know. Old teachers see quite a lot."
"You have your own version of the Progressive Element at Alma
Aleron?"
"Oh, it's beyond that, unfortunately. For most of the students and even
the staff, the facts of Voldemort and his Death Eaters are up for conjecture.
It's incredible how short a time must pass before a certain kind of mentality
feels it is safe to turn history onto its head."
"The Progressive Element here knows they need to be very careful,"
Harry said in a low voice. "Enough people are still alive who have firsthand
memories of Voldemort and his atrocities. Enough people still remember
lost family and friends, killed at the hand of his Death Eaters. Still, the lure
to challenge the status quo, whatever it may be, is strong in the young. It's
natural, but typically short-lived. History will out, as they say."
"History is bunk," Franklyn said disgustedly. "I should know. I lived
during quite a bit of it, and I can indeed tell you that sometimes, there is, in
fact, a wide gulf between what gets reported and what actually happened."

"I would expect that that is the exception and not the rule," Harry
stated.
Franklyn sighed as they turned a corner. "I suppose. The fact is,
though, that the exceptions give rabble-rousers like the Progressive Element
all the ammunition they need to challenge any historical record they wish.
The history of Voldemort and his rise to power, as we know it, doesn't fit
their agenda. Thus, they carefully attack it, sowing the seeds of doubt
among minds shallow enough to believe the distortions."
"It sounds," Harry said, keeping his voice low and conversational,
"like you have a pretty good idea what their agenda is."
"Of course I do, and so do you, Mr. Potter. The agenda hasn't changed
for a thousand years, has it?"
"No, it hasn't."
"Harry Potter." Franklyn stopped in the darkness of the corridor,
looking at Harry's face. "Even now, a sizeable minority in my country
believe that Lord Tom Riddle, as they prefer to call him, has been unfairly
demonized by you who defeated him. They prefer to believe that Voldemort
was a revolutionary hero, a fresh thinker, whose beliefs were simply too
much for the traditional ruling class to tolerate. They think he was
destroyed because he threatened to make things better, not worse, but that
the wealthy and powerful were resistant even to a change for the good."
James, standing several feet away, hidden under the cloak, could see
his dad's jaw clenching as Franklyn spoke. But when Harry responded, his
voice remained calm and measured. "You know that these are lies and
distortions, I assume."
"Of course I do," Franklyn said, waving a hand dismissively, almost
angrily. "But the point is that they are attractive lies to a certain type of
person. Those that preach these distortions know how to appeal to the

emotions of the populace. They believe the truth is a wire to bend to their
will. It is their agenda only that they care for."
Harry remained stoic and unmoving. "And the agenda, you believe, is
the domination of the Muggle world?"
Franklyn laughed rather harshly, and James thought of the nasty
chuckle the professor had made during dinner, when discussing Madame
Delacroix's powers. "Not to hear them tell it. No, they are crafty these days.
They claim to be for the exact opposite. Their rallying cry is absolute
equality between the Muggle and magical worlds. Full disclosure, the
abolition of all laws of secrecy and non-competition. They preach that
anything less is unfair to the Muggles, an insult to them."
Harry nodded grimly. "As we are seeing here. Of course, it is a twoedged sword. Prejudice and equality in the same message."
"Certainly," Franklyn agreed, resuming his walk along the corridor. "In
America, we are seeing a resurgence of stories about Muggle scientists
capturing witches and wizards, torturing them to discover the secret of their
magic."
"A throwback to the old Salem witch trials?" Harry asked.
Franklyn laughed, and this time there was no malice in it. "Hardly.
Those were the good old days. Sure, witches were put on trial, and loads of
them were burned, but as you know, any witch worth her wand wouldn't be
hurt by a Muggle bonfire. She'd stand in the flames and yell for a while, just
to give the Muggles a good show, then transport herself from the pyre
flames to her own fireplace. That was the origin of the Floo Network, of
course. No, these days, the stories of witches and wizards being captured
and systematically tortured are pure fabrications. That doesn't matter to the
faithful, though. The culture of fear and prejudice works side-by-side with
their mission of 'equality'. Full disclosure, they claim, will bring peace and
freedom. Continuing the program of secrecy, on the other hand, can only
lead to more attacks on wizarding society by an increasingly invasive
Muggle world."

Harry stopped by a window. "And once they've achieved their goal of
total disclosure with the Muggle world?"
"Well, there's only one outcome to that, isn't there?" Franklyn
answered.
Harry's face was thoughtful in the moonlight. "Muggles and wizards
would descend into competitions and jealousies, just like they did in eons
past. The dark wizards would make sure of it. It would start as small
challenges and outbursts. Laws would be passed, enforcing equal treatment,
but those laws would become the basis for new contentions. Wizards would
demand to be placed into Muggle power structures, all in the name of
'equality'. Once there, they'd push for greater control, more power. They'd
win over Muggle leaders, using promises and lies where they could, threats
and the Imperius Curse where they couldn't. Eventually, order would break
down. Finally, inevitably, there would be all-out war." Harry's voice had
gone soft, considering. He turned to Franklyn, who stood watching him, his
face calm but dreadful. "And that's what they want, isn't it? War with the
Muggle world."
"That's what they've always wanted," Franklyn agreed. "The struggle
never stops. It just has different chapters."
"Who's involved?" Harry asked simply.
Franklyn sighed again, hugely, and rubbed his eyes. "It's not so simple.
It's virtually impossible to tell the instigators from their followers. There are
some individuals it would be instructive to watch closely, though."
"Madame Delacroix."
Franklyn glanced up, studying Harry's face. He nodded. "And
Professor Jackson."
James gasped, and then clapped his hand over his mouth. His dad and

Professor Franklyn stood very still. James was sure they'd heard him. Then
Harry spoke again.
"Anyone else?"
Franklyn shook his head slowly. "Of course. But then you'd just be
watching everyone and everything. It's like an infestation of cockroaches in
the walls. You can either watch the cracks or burn down the house. Take
your pick."
James backed away very carefully, then when he felt safely out of
earshot, he turned and retraced his steps back to the Americans' quarters.
His heart was pounding so heavily he had been sure that his dad or
Professor Franklyn would hear it.
He knew the so-called Progressive Element was no good, but now he
knew it must be them that were planning the return of Merlinus Ambrosius,
believing he would help them to accomplish their false goal of equality,
which would lead inevitably to war. Merlin had said that he would return
when the balance between Muggles and wizards was 'ripe for his
ministrations'. What else could that mean? He hadn't been surprised that
Madame Delacroix might be involved in such a plot. But Professor
Jackson? James had come to quite like the professor, despite his crusty
exterior. He could hardly imagine that Jackson could be secretly plotting the
domination of the Muggle world. Franklyn had to be wrong about him.
James ran lightly past the Americans' quarters, looking for the door to
the guest room he and his dad were staying in. With a sudden stab of fear,
he remembered that the doorway had vanished when he'd come out. It was a
magical room, after all. How was he supposed to get back in? He had to be
inside the room, apparently asleep, by the time his dad came back. He
stopped in the corridor, not even sure what stretch of wall the doorway had
appeared in. He glanced around hopelessly, unable to keep himself from
looking for some subtle clue or hint of where the doorway was hidden.
What had his dad called it? The 'Room of Requirement'? James had
remembered his wand this time. He pulled it out and shook his hand out
from under the cloak, revealing it.

"Uh," he began, whispering harshly and pointing his wand at the wall.
"Room of Requirement… open?"
Nothing happened, of course. And then James heard a noise. His
senses had grown almost painfully sharp as his body shot full of adrenaline.
He listened, his eyes wide. Voices. Franklyn and his dad were coming back
already. They must have begun their return journey at almost exactly the
same time as James, but a little slower. He heard them talking in hushed
voices, probably as they stood by the door into Franklyn's rooms. His dad
would be returning in mere moments.
James thought furiously. What had his dad done to open the room? He
had just stood there, hadn't he, waiting, and then bang, there was the door?
No, James recalled, he had spoken first. And paced a bit. James replayed
the evening in his memory, trying to remember what his dad had said, but
he was too flustered.
Light bloomed at the end of the corridor. Footsteps approached. James
looked down the corridor frantically. His dad was approaching, wand lit but
held low, his head down. James remembered that he had his own wand held
out, his arm outside the cloak. He yanked it in as quickly and silently as he
could, arranging the cloak to cover him completely. It was hopeless. His
dad would enter the room and see that James wasn't there. Maybe James
could follow him in and claim to have been to his rooms to get a book he
needed? He had never been any good at lying. Besides, he'd have the cloak
with him. He almost groaned out loud.
Harry Potter stopped in the corridor. He held the wand up and looked
at the wall. "I need to get into the room my son is sleeping in," he said
conversationally. Nothing happened. Harry didn't seem surprised.
"Hmm," he said, apparently to himself. "I wonder why the door won't
open. I suppose…," he looked around raising his eyebrows and smiling
very slightly, "it's because my son isn't sleeping in the Room of
Requirement at all, but is standing here in the corridor with me, under my
Invisibility Cloak, trying as hard as he can to remember how in the world to
open the door. Right, James?"

James let out his breath and yanked the Invisibility Cloak off. "You
knew all along, didn't you?"
"I assumed it when I heard you gasp downstairs. I didn't know for
sure until the trick with the door. Come on, let's get inside." Harry Potter
chuckled tiredly. He paced three times and spoke the words that opened the
Room of Requirement and they went in.
When they were both in their beds, James in the top bunk, staring up at
the dark ceiling, Harry spoke.
"You don't have to follow in my footsteps, James. I hope you know
that."
James worked his jaw, not ready to respond to that. He listened and
waited.
"You were down there tonight, so you heard Professor Franklyn,"
Harry finally said. "There's one part of what he said that I want you to
remember. There are always plots and revolutions in the works. The battle
is always the same, just with different chapters. It isn't your job to save the
world, son. Even if you do, it'll just go and get itself into danger again, and
again, and again. It's the nature of things."
Harry paused and James heard him laugh quietly. "I know how it feels.
I remember the great weight of responsibility and the heady thrill of
believing I was the only one to stop the evil, to win the war, to battle for the
ultimate good. But James, even then, that wasn't my duty alone. It was
everyone's fight. Everyone's sacrifice. And there were those whose sacrifice
was far greater than my own. It isn't one man's duty to save the world. And
it certainly isn't the duty of one boy who can't even figure out how to open
the Room of Requirement yet."
James heard movement from the bunk below. His dad stood, his head
rising to look at James in the top bunk. In the darkness, James couldn't

make out his expression, but he knew it nonetheless. His dad was smiling
his crooked, knowing smile. His dad knew it all. His dad was Harry Potter.
"What do you think, son?"
James took a deep breath. He wanted to tell his dad about everything
he'd seen and heard. It was on the tip of his tongue to tell him about the
Muggle intruder, and Cedric Diggory's ghost, and the secret of
Austramaddux, the plot to return Merlin and use him to start a final war
with the Muggles. But in the end, he decided not to. He smiled at his dad.
"I know, Dad. Don't worry about me. If I decide to save the world
single-handedly, I'll send you and Mum a note first. OK?"
Harry smirked and shook his head, not really buying it, but knowing
there was no point in pressing the point. He climbed back into the bottom
bunk.
Five minutes later, James spoke up in the dark. "Hey, Dad, any chance
you might let me keep the Invisibility Cloak with me for the school year?"
"None at all, my boy. None at all," Harry said sleepily. James heard
him roll over. A few minutes later, both slept.

When James and Harry Potter entered the Great Hall the next morning,
James sensed the mood of the room change. He was used to the reaction
that the wizarding community showed whenever he was out with his dad,
but this was different. Rather than turning to look at them, James sensed
people looking pointedly in the other direction. Conversations quieted.
There was the strange sensation of people glancing at them sideways or
turning to watch once James and Harry had passed them. James felt a surge
of anger. Who were these people? Most of them were good witches and
wizards, from hardworking parents who had always been supportive of

Harry Potter, first as the Boy Who Lived, then as the young man who
helped bring about the downfall of Voldemort, and finally as the man who
was Head Auror. Now, just because some rabble-rousers had painted a few
signs and spread around a few stupid rumors, they were afraid to look
directly at him.
Even as James thought that, however, he saw that he was wrong. As
Harry and James sat down at the end of the Gryffindor table (James had
pleaded with his dad not to make him sit up at the teachers' table on the
dais), there were a few grins and hearty greetings. Ted saw Harry, whooped,
and ran down the length of table, giving Harry a complicated handshake
that involved a lot of banging fists, hand grips and finally, an embrace that
was one part hug and one part body slam.
Harry collapsed onto the bench, laughing. "Ted, you're going to knock
yourself clean out one of these times."
"My godfather, everybody," Ted said, as if introducing Harry to the
room at large. "Have you met Noah yet, Harry? He's a Gremlin, like me and
Petra."
Harry shook Noah's hand. "I think we met last year at the Quidditch
championship, yes?"
"Sure," Noah said. "That was the game where Ted scored the winning
point for the opposing team. How could I forget?"
"Technically, it was an assist," Ted said primly. "I happened to wallop
their team's Quaffle carrier through the goal on accident. I was aiming for
the press box."
"Hate to interrupt, but do you guys mind if James and I get a little
breakfast?" Harry asked, gesturing toward the table.
"Have at it," Ted replied magnanimously. "And if any of these
malcontents give you any trouble, just let me know. It's Quidditch tonight,

and we hold grudges." He eyed the room grimly, then grinned and sauntered
away.
"I'd tell him not to sweat it, but that'd be taking away his fun, wouldn't
it?" Harry said, watching Ted depart. James grinned. They both began to fill
their plates from the steaming platters along the table. As they began to eat,
James was pleased to see Ralph and Zane enter. He waved them over
enthusiastically.
"Hey, Dad, here're my friends, Zane and Ralph," James said as they
piled onto the benches, one on either side. "Zane's the blond one, Ralph's
the brick house."
"Pleased to meet you, Zane, Ralph," Harry said. "James tells me good
things about both of you."
"I've read about you," Ralph said, staring at Harry. "Did you really do
all that stuff?"
Harry laughed. "Straight shooter, isn't he?" he said, raising an eyebrow
at James. "The major points, yes, those are probably true. Although if
you'd've been there, it would have seemed a lot less heroic at the time.
Mostly, me and my friends were just trying to keep ourselves from getting
blasted, eaten, or cursed."
Zane seemed uncharacteristically quiet. "Hey, what's the deal?" James
said, nudging him. "You're a little too new to all this to have an idol
complex about the Great Harry Potter."
Zane grimaced, and then pulled a copy of the Daily Prophet from his
backpack. "This stinks," he said, sighing and flopping the paper open onto
the table, "but you're gonna see it sooner or later."
James leaned over and glanced at it. 'Hogwarts Anti-Auror Demonstration
Overshadows International Summit', the main headline read. Below it, in
smaller type: 'Potter Visit Sets Off School-wide Protest as Magical
Community Re-evaluates Auror Policies'. James felt his cheeks flush red

with anger. Before he could respond, however, his dad placed a hand on his
shoulder.
"Hmm," Harry said mildly. "That's got Rita Skeeter's name all over it."
Zane frowned at Harry, then glanced at the paper again. "You can tell
who wrote it just by the headline?"
"No," Harry laughed, dismissing the newspaper and digging into a
slice of French toast. "Her name's on the byline. Still, yeah, that is pretty
much her typical brand of tripe. It hardly matters. The world will forget it
by this time next week."
James was reading the first paragraph, his brow furrowed furiously.
"She says that most of the school was there, protesting and shouting. That's
complete rubbish! I saw it, and if there were more than a hundred people
there, I'll kiss a Blast-Ended Skrewt! Besides, most of them were just there
to see what was going on! There were only fifteen or twenty people with
the signs and the slogans!"
Harry sighed. "It's just a story, James. It isn't supposed to be accurate, it's
supposed to sell papers."
"But how can you let them say things like this? It's dangerous! Professor
Franklyn--"
The look Harry gave him stopped him from going any further. After a
second, Harry's expression softened. "I know what you are worried about,
James, and I don't blame you. But there are ways of handling these things,
and one of those ways isn't arguing with people like Rita Skeeter."
"You sound like McGonagall," James said, dropping his eyes and
jabbing at a chunk of sausage.
"I should," Harry replied quickly. "She taught me. And I think it's
Headmistress McGonagall to you."

James poked at his plate sullenly for a moment. Then, not wanting to
look at it anymore, he folded the newspaper roughly and stuck it out of
sight.
"First Quidditch of the season tonight, then, right?" Harry asked,
waving his fork at the three boys in general.
"Ravenclaw versus Gryffindor!" Zane announced. "My first game! I
can hardly wait."
James looked up and saw his dad grinning at Zane. "You made the
Ravenclaw team, then! That's very cool. If I can finish early enough, I plan
on coming to the match. I look forward to seeing you fly. What position
will you play?"
"Beater," Zane said, pretending to swat a Bludger with his fork.
"He's pretty good, Mr. Potter," Ralph said earnestly. "I saw him fly his
first time. He just about made a crater in the middle of the pitch, but he
pulled up at the last second."
"That takes some serious control," Harry acknowledged, studying
Zane. "You've had broom lessons?"
"Not a one!" Ralph cried, as if he were Zane's public relations agent.
"That's the amazing bit, isn't it?"
James looked at Ralph, his face grim, trying to catch his eye and warn
him off the topic, but it was already too late.
"He probably wouldn't have figured it out at all," Ralph said, "if he
hadn't taken off after James when he did the big outta-control-like-a-bottlerocket-rumba." Ralph squirmed on the bench, mimicking James' inaugural
broom flight.
"But you'll be supporting the Gryffindors, of course!" Zane interrupted

suddenly, planting his palm on Ralph's forehead and pushing him
backwards.
Harry glanced around the table, chewing a chunk of toast, a quizzical
look on his face. "Er, well, yes. Of course," he admitted, still looking from
boy to boy.
"Yeah, well, that's cool. I understand completely," Zane said quickly,
waggling his eyebrows at Ralph who was sitting there looking nonplussed.
"Be true to your school and all that. Whoo. Look at the time. Come on,
Ralphinator. Classes to get to."
"I have a free period first," Ralph protested. "And I haven't had any
breakfast yet."
"Let's go, ya lunkhead!" Zane insisted, coming around the table and
hooking Ralph's elbow. Zane could barely move Ralph, but Ralph allowed
himself to be tugged along.
"What?" Ralph said loudly, frowning at the meaningful look Zane was
giving him. "What'd I do? Did I say something I wasn't--" He stopped. His
eyebrows shot up and he turned back to James, looking mortified. "Oh.
Ah," he said as Zane pulled him toward the door. As they rounded the
corner, James heard Ralph say, "I'm just a big idiot, aren't I?"
James sighed. "So yeah, I stink at Quidditch. I'm sorry."
Harry studied his son. "Pretty bad, was it?"
James nodded. "I know," he said. "It's no big deal. It's just Quidditch.
There's always next year. I don't have to do it just because you did it. I
know, I know. You don't have to say it."
Harry continued to stare at James, his jaw moving slightly, as if he was
thinking. Finally he sat back and picked up his pumpkin juice. "Well, that's
a load off my chest, then. Sounds like you've done my job for me."

James looked up at his dad. Harry looked back at him as he took a very
long, slow drink from his glass. He seemed to be smiling, and hiding his
smile behind the glass. James tried not to laugh. This is serious, he told
himself. This isn't funny. This is Quidditch. On that thought, his composure
cracked slightly. He smiled, and then tried to cover it with his hand, which
only made it worse.
Harry lowered his glass and grinned, shaking his head slowly. "You've
really been worried about this, haven't you, James?"
James' smile faltered again. He swallowed. "Yeah, Dad. Of course I
have. I mean, it's Quidditch. It's your sport, and Granddad's, too. I'm James
Potter. I'm supposed to be excellent on a broom. Not a danger to myself and
everybody around me."
Harry leaned forward, putting his glass down and looking James in the
eye. "And you may still be great on the broom, James. Merlin's beard, son,
it's your first week and you've not even had your first broom lesson, have
you? Back when I started here, we wouldn't have even been allowed to get
on a practice broom without lessons, much less try out for the House
teams."
"But even if you had," James interrupted, "you'd have been excellent at
it."
"That's not the point son. You are so worried about living up to the
myth of who I was supposed to be that you aren't giving yourself a chance
to be even better. You're defeating yourself before you even start. Don't you
see that? No one can compete with a legend. Even I wish I was half the
wizard the stories make me out to be. Every day, I look in the mirror and
tell myself not to try so hard to be the Famous Harry Potter, but just to relax
and let myself be your dad, and your mum's husband, and the best Auror I
can be, which sometimes doesn't seem to be all that great, to tell you the
truth. You have to stop thinking of yourself as the son of Harry Potter…"
Harry paused, seeing that James had really heard him, perhaps for the first
time. He smiled a little again. "And give me the chance to think of myself

simply as James Potter's dad instead. Because of all the things I've done in
my life, raising you, Albus, and Lily, are the three things I am proudest of.
Got it?"
James smiled again, crookedly. He didn't know it, but it was the same
crooked smile he so often saw on his dad's face. "All right, Dad. I'll try that.
But it's hard."
Harry nodded understandingly and sat back. After a moment, he said,
"Am I always that predictable?"
James broke into a knowing grin. "Sure, Dad. You and Mum both.
'You aren't going outside wearing that, are you?'" Harry laughed out loud at
James' impression of Ginny. James went on. "'It's cold in here, put on a
sweater! Don't say that word in front of your grandmum! Stop playing with
the garden gnomes or you'll get green thumbs!'"
Harry was still laughing and wiping his eyes as they said goodbye,
promising to meet that evening at the Quidditch match.

7. Broken Loyalty
James' first class, ironically, was Basic Broom. The teacher was a giant
slab of a man named Cabriel Ridcully. He wore a fawn-colored sport cloak
over his Quidditch official's tunic, which displayed his enormous forearms
and calves.
"Good morning, first years!" he boomed, and James guessed that Cabe
Ridcully was one of the world's great morning people. "Welcome to Basic
Broom. Most of you know me already, having seen me at the Quidditch
matches and tournaments and whatnot. We'll be spending this year getting
familiar with the fundamentals of flight. I believe in a very hands-on
approach, so we'll all be jumping right into essential broom-handling and
control. Everyone approach your brooms, please."
James had been dreading getting back onto a broom again, but as the
class progressed, he found that, with proper guidance, he was able to
manage getting his broom to levitate and support him, and even control its
altitude and speed in very small formations. He realized that there were

subtle variations in how the broom responded, based on speed and
inclination. If the broom was merely hovering, leaning forward on the
broomstick pressed it forwards, while pulling up drove it backwards. Once
the broom was moving, however, those same controls began to also manage
height. The faster the broom was moving, the more James' posture
controlled altitude instead of speed. Finding the fine difference between a
speed-lean and an altitude-lean was dependent entirely on the velocity of
the broomstick at any given time. James sensed that the slightest panic
would cause him to lose even the tiny degree of control he had already
learned, and he began to understand why he'd been so dreadful during the
Quidditch tryouts.
As pleased as James was at his own tentative control of the
broomstick, he still felt a shudder of jealousy when he saw Zane managing
his broom through elaborate, effortless swoops and banks.
"Let's avoid showboating, Mr. Walker," Ridcully called reproachfully,
and James couldn't help feeling a petty surge of gratification. "Save it for
the match tonight, why don't you?"
Ralph's entire body was tensed as he struggled to stay atop his broom.
He'd gotten it to float about four feet off the ground and seemed to be stuck
there. "How do I get it to swoop like that?" he asked, watching Zane.
James shook his head. "I'd just worry about staying right-side up if I
was you, Ralph."
The rest of the morning's classes were far less interesting, with Basic
Spellwork and Ancient Runes. At lunch, James explained to Ralph and
Zane the happenings of the night before. He told them about Franklyn's
Daylight Savings Device, and the dinner conversation involving Madame
Delacroix's voodoo powers. Finally, he explained the conversation he had
heard between his dad and Professor Franklyn, and how it fit in with the
Austramaddux story about Merlin's predicted return.
"So," Zane said, narrowing his eyes and staring thoughtfully at the

wall behind James' head, "I am to understand that your dad has a cloak…
that makes anyone who wears it invisible."
James moaned, exasperated. "Yes! That's hardly the point, though, is
it?"
"Speak for yourself. I mean, forget x-ray specs. Just think what a guy
could do with an Invisibility Cloak. Is it steam-resistant, do you think?"
James rolled his eyes. "I don't think that the wizard who spent his
lifetime creating the world's most perfect invisible garment did it to sneak
into the girls' showers."
"But you don't know that, do you?" Zane said, undeterred.
Ralph chewed slowly, thinking. "So Franklyn told your dad that there
were wizards in the States who were pushing for the same thing as the
Progressive Element? Muggle and wizard equality and all that?"
James nodded. "Yeah, but it's all just a sham, isn't it? I mean, since
when have Slytherins really wanted anything nice for the Muggle world?
All the old pureblood Slytherin houses have always been for going public,
but just so they can take over the Muggle world and rule it. They think
Muggles are an inferior species, not equals."
Ralph looked oddly troubled. "Well, maybe. I don't know. Most of the
people out in the courtyard the other day weren't even Slytherins, though.
Did you notice that?"
James hadn't, actually. "Doesn't really matter. It was the Slytherins
that got the whole thing started, with the Progressive Element slogans and
badges and stuff. You said so yourself, Ralph. Tabitha Corsica was handing
the badges out to all the Slytherins. She's behind the whole thing."
"I don't think she's in on it like you think she is," Ralph said, "with this
whole bringing-Merlin- back-from-the-dead plot and all that. She just
thinks we should be fair to everybody, Muggle and wizard alike. She's not

trying to start a war or anything stupid. I mean, really, it doesn't seem fair
that we shouldn't be able to work in the Muggle world, does it? Or compete
in Muggle games and sports? Just because we have magic on our side,
doesn't make us outcasts."
"You sound just like one of them," James said angrily.
"Well?" Ralph said suddenly, his face going red. "I am one of them, if
you haven't noticed. And I don't appreciate the way you're talking about my
house. Things are a lot different now than they were when your dad went
here. If you're so worried about truth and history, you should be all for
debate on the subject. Maybe Tabitha's right about you."
James sat back, his mouth dropping open.
Ralph lowered his eyes. "She wants me to be in the first school debate
with Team A. I assume you know the topic. They're calling it 'Re-evaluating
the Assumptions of the Past: Truth or Conspiracy'?"
"And you're going to be on the team, then? You're going to argue that
my dad and his chums made the whole Voldemort story up just to scare
people into keeping the wizarding world a secret?"
Ralph looked miserable. "Nobody believes your dad made it up,
but…" He didn't seem to know how to finish the sentence.
"Well!" James cried, throwing up his hands. "Great argument, then!
I'm speechless! Tabitha sure has a great partner in you, hasn't she?"
"But maybe your dad wasn't on the right side after all!" Ralph said
hotly. "Has that ever occurred to you? I mean, sure, people got killed. It was
a war. But why is it that when your side killed people, it was a triumph of
good, but when their side killed, it was an evil atrocity? The victors write
the history books, you know. Maybe the truth of the whole affair has been
skewed. How would you know? You weren't even born yet."
James threw his fork down onto the table. "I know my dad!" he

shouted. "He didn't kill anyone! He was on the right side, because my dad is
a good man! Voldemort was a bloodthirsty monster who just wanted power
and was willing to kill anyone who got in his way, even his friends! You
might want to remember that, since you seem to be choosing to side with
people like him!"
Ralph stared at James and swallowed. James knew, in some small,
distant part of his mind, that he was overreacting. Ralph was Muggle-born:
everything he knew about Voldemort and Harry Potter, he'd only read in the
last two weeks. Besides, Ralph was being fed all this by his housemates,
who he was desperate to get along with. Still, James was furious to the
point of wanting to hit him, mostly because he didn't dare hit any of the
Slytherins who were directly responsible for the malicious, self-serving lies
about his dad. James broke eye contact first. He heard Ralph gather his
books and backpack.
"Well," Zane said tentatively, "I was going to see if you two wanted to
meet after the match tonight for Butterbeers with the Gremlins, but maybe
I'll just take a rain check, eh?"
Neither Ralph nor James spoke. After a moment, Ralph walked away.
"You were pretty horrible to him, you know," Zane said evenly.
"Me?" James exclaimed.
"Before you defend yourself," Zane said, raising a hand in a
conciliatory gesture, "just let me say, you're right. Of course, it's all a load
of crap. But it's Ralph. He's just trying to get along. You know?"
"No," James said flatly, "not when 'getting along' means talking up a
bunch of lies about my dad."
"He doesn't know they're lies," Zane said reasonably. "He's just a guy
hearing all this for the first time. He wants to believe you, but he also wants
to fit in with his house. Too bad for him they're all a bunch of wacked-out,
power-crazed lunatics."

James felt slightly mollified. He knew Zane was right, but he still
couldn't quite regret his outburst against Ralph. "So? You're just a new guy
hearing all this for the first time, too. Why aren't you running off to join the
Progressive Element and chant slogans?"
"Because lucky for you," Zane said, throwing an arm around James'
neck, "I got sorted into Ravenclaw, and they all hated Old Voldy just as
much as you Gryffindors. Besides," he looked slightly wistful, "I happen to
think Petra Morganstern is, on the whole, just a little bit hotter than Tabitha
Corsica."
James elbowed Zane away from him, groaning.
They both went to the library for study period. Knossus Shert, the
Ancient Runes professor, was monitoring the period, his thick glasses and
long, skinny limbs in green robes making him look rather like a praying
mantis seated behind the library head desk.
Zane was copying Arithmancy theorems, frowning as he worked
them out. James, not wanting to disturb him, but equally disinterested in
embarking on his own homework, pulled the morning's copy of the Daily
Prophet out of his backpack, where he'd stuffed it at breakfast. He glanced
at the lead articles again, pressing his lips together in disgust. Near the
bottom of the front page, James was annoyed to see a picture of Tabitha
Corsica. She looked like she always did: reasonable, thoughtful, and polite.
'Hogwarts Prefect Discusses Progressives Movement on Campus', the
headline next to her picture read. Knowing he shouldn't read it, James
glanced at a random couple of lines in the middle of the article.
"Of course, my house doesn't believe in disturbing the harmony of
the school for these discussions, but we respect the members of other
houses as they voice their concerns," Miss Corsica explained, her eyes
full of regret for the disruptions of the day, but obviously recognizing
the validity of her fellow students' motivations. "Despite the
Headmistress' reluctance to be clear about the debate schedule, I am

confident that we will be allowed to forge ahead with our plan to foster
a discussion about Auror practices and policies, and the assumptions
those are based on, in an open and free-ranging debate format."
Miss Corsica, a fifth-year Slytherin, is also captain of her
Quidditch team. "I had my broomstick fashioned by Muggle artisans,"
she explains shyly. "They had no idea of the magical properties of the
wood, and of course, I had it registered by the school as a Muggle
artifact. But still, I just thought it would be nice to experience
something handmade by our Muggle friends. It also happens to be one
of the fastest brooms on the pitch," she adds, biting her lip modestly,
"but I credit that to the hands that made it, as much as to the spells
that infuse the wood."
James picked up the paper and flipped it over angrily, slapping it onto
the table and earning a loud hush from Professor Shert.
He stared unseeingly at the back of the paper. How could anyone
believe such obviously contrived drivel? Tabitha Corsica and her specialorder Muggle-made broom were just the icing on the cake, and she knew it.
When James had seen her in the courtyard, Tabitha had been giving her
interview with Rita Skeeter. James remembered the breathless eagerness on
Skeeter's face as her quill danced across the parchment. Stupid, gullible
woman, James thought. Still, apparently she was just being true to herself
and her readership. James had been told about his dad's first encounters
with Skeeter, back during the Triwizard Tournament. Aunt Hermione had
caught on to the secret that Rita Skeeter was an unregistered Animagus, her
animal form being that of a beetle. Eventually, Hermione had captured
Skeeter in her beetle form, preventing her, for a time, from continuing her
assault on the truth via her articles in the Daily Prophet. This morning,
however, Harry had told James that the way to fight for the truth was not to
argue with people like Rita Skeeter. Frankly, James preferred Aunt
Hermione's methods to those his dad claimed to espouse these days.
As he ruminated on this, James' eye roamed unseeingly over the
headlines and pictures on the back of the paper. Suddenly, however, one
headline caught his attention. He leaned over it, his brow furrowing.

Ministry Break-in Remains a Mystery
LONDON: Last week's burglary of the Ministry of Magic
Headquarters leaves Aurors and officials alike baffled, as questions
still surface about the burglars' motives and the possibility of inside
accomplices. As reported by this news organ early last week, three
individuals of questionable backgrounds were arrested on the morning
of Monday, August 31st, related to a break-in and ransacking of several
departments of the Ministry of Magic. The three alleged burglars, two
humans and a goblin, were found during a search of the surrounding
area hours after the break-in was discovered.
Upon the realization that the individuals had fallen under the
Langlock jinx, rendering them incapable of responding to
interrogation, all three were sent under guard to St. Mungo's Hospital
for Magical Maladies and Injuries. A search of the ransacked
departments, which included the Department of International Magical
Cooperation, the Currency Conversion Office, and the Department of
Mysteries, however, revealed no apparently missing objects or
moneys. The criminal charges were subsequently reduced to
destruction of property and trespassing, and the story, while curious,
was dismissed until late last week, when it became known that no
amount of counter-curses or jinxes were having any effect on the
Langlocked accused.
"These are remarkably powerful curses, involving a not
insubstantial degree of dark magic charm work," said Dr. Horatio
Flack, head of the counter-jinx facility at St. Mungo's. "If we are
unable to release the curse on these men by this weekend, I am afraid
the spells may become permanent."
As it turns out, one of the accused, identified to this reporter as
the goblin, a Mr. Fikklis Bistle of Sussex, did begin to respond to the
counter-jinxes over the course of the weekend. "He was making
sounds and grunts, getting rather close to actual words," reported one
of his nurses, who asked to remain anonymous. Shortly after dawn this
morning, however, Mr. Bistle was found dead in his room, apparently
the victim of a mislabeled medication. This has sparked a wide range
of speculation, resulting in a renewed investigation into the break-in.

Quorina Greene, lead investigator for the case, was quoted as
saying, "We are now primarily concerned with ascertaining how,
exactly, these three individuals were able to gain entry into Ministry
offices. These are small-time crooks, none having ever attempted
something of this magnitude in the past. We cannot rule out the
likelihood of outside help, or even a Ministry insider. The death of Mr.
Bistle, however, while suspicious, is still being ruled as an accident.
We can only be thankful," Ms. Greene added, "that the thieves
apparently failed in their efforts, seeing that nothing has apparently
gone missing."
"Come on," Zane whispered, startling James out of his reading. "I'm
gonna sneak out early so I can get in some practice time on the broom.
Want to come along? I could use a Potter for good luck."
James decided it would be good to swallow his pride and tag along
with Zane. He even thought he might spend a little practice time on a broom
himself. He folded the newspaper again and stuffed it into his backpack.
"Think you can show me how to do that hard stop and spin I saw you
pulling in Basic Broom class today?" James asked Zane as they pounded up
the stairs to change out of their robes.
"Sure, mate," Zane agreed confidently. "Just don't show it to Ralph
until he can keep his broom under him while he's floating still."
James felt an ugly pang at the mention of Ralph's name, but he pushed
it away. Minutes later, changed into jeans and tee shirts, the two of them ran
exuberantly out into the sunlight of the afternoon, heading toward the
Quidditch pitch.

James spent the afternoon on the pitch with Zane, practicing his

broom-handling a little, but mostly just watching the Ravenclaw and
Gryffindor teams assemble and run drills. When Zane joined his team to
grab some quick dinner and get into their gear, James accompanied Ted and
the Gryffindors back to the common room as they changed and headed
down to dinner themselves. The atmosphere before the first match of the
season was always charged with excitement. The Great Hall was raucous
with good-natured teasing, shouts and impromptu outbursts of House
anthems. During dessert, Noah, Ted, Petra, and Sabrina, all dressed in their
Quidditch jerseys, lined up along the front of the Gryffindor table, arms
linked and grinning like they were about to perform a show tune. In unison,
they stomped their feet on the stone floor, garnering the room's attention,
then launched into a roughly choreographed but enthusiastic Irish jig,
singing a tune Damien had written for them earlier that day:
Ohhh, we Gryffindors like to make jokes and have fun,
But the Quidditch pitch with us will be overrun,
And we hope that the Ravenclaws know that they're done,
When the lion team drops down on them like a ton.
Ohhh, the game can be tough and the body checks harsh,
And you might find your Seeker's been tossed in the marsh,
But we Gryffindors with our goodwill are not sparse,
So we'll warn you before we kick you in the—
The last words were drowned out by the mingled roars and cheers of
the Gryffindors and the boos and catcalls of the Ravenclaws. The Gremlins
bowed deeply, grinning, obviously pleased with themselves, and then joined
their teammates as they ran out to the Quidditch pitch for final preparations.
The first and last matches of the Quidditch season, as James knew,
were always the best attended. At the end of the year, during final

tournaments, everyone knew that, whichever teams were playing, they'd be
exciting matches. At the beginning of the year, though, people were excited
and hopeful for their own House teams. Most matches saw the grandstands
filled with students and teachers, decked out in their team colors and
waving flags and banners. As James entered the pitch, he was delighted to
see and hear the enthusiastic crowd. Students milled and shouted to each
other as they filed into their seats. The teachers mostly sat at the tops of the
sections dedicated to their houses. As James climbed the stairs into the
Gryffindor section, he saw his dad seated near the press box, flanked by the
Ministry officials on his right and the Alma Aleron delegation on his left.
Harry saw James and waved him up, smiling broadly. As James reached
him, Harry orchestrated a complicated rearrangement of the seating that,
while only freeing a single seat for James, required nearly everyone in the
group to move. James mumbled apologies, but didn't really mind seeing the
look of annoyance on Ms. Sacarhina's face, masked thinly by her
omnipresent plastic smile.
"As I was saying, yes, we do have Quidditch in the States," Professor
Franklyn said to Harry, his voice carrying over the dull roar of the
assembling crowd, "but for some reason, it isn't quite as popular as sports
like swivenhodge, grungeball or broomstick gauntlet. Our World Cup team
shows some promise this year, though, or so I am told. I tend to remain
skeptical."
James glanced around at the Americans, curious to see who was in
attendance and what they seemed to think of the match so far. Madame
Delacroix was seated on the end of the row, her face expressionless and her
hands folded tightly on her lap so that they looked unpleasantly like a ball
of brown knuckles. Professor Jackson glanced at James and nodded in
greeting. James saw that his black leather case, with its inexplicable cargo,
was sitting between his feet, securely closed this time. Professor Franklyn
was dressed in what passed for his dress robes, with a high white collar and
a frilly ascot at his throat, and his square spectacles which caught the light
cheerfully as he looked around the grandstands.
"Where's Ralph?" Harry asked James. "I thought I'd see him with you
tonight."

James shrugged noncommittally, avoiding his dad's eyes.
"Ah! Here we are," Franklyn announced, sitting up and craning to
watch.
The Gryffindor team streaked out of the broad doorway at the base of
their grandstand, their red cloaks snapping behind each flyer like a flag.
"The Gryffindor squadron, led by Captain Justin Kennely, is first to
take the pitch," Damien Damascus' voice rang out stoutly from the press
box.
The team pulled into a corkscrew formation that tightened as it rose,
and then yanked their brooms to a halt as the players formed a large letter
'G' right in front of the Gryffindor section of the grandstands. Then the
shape dissolved as the players broke formation, dodging around one another
in a dizzying bout of aerial acrobatics, and reformed into the letter 'P'. All
the players sat up straight on their brooms, faced Harry and James, and
saluted, grinning broadly. The Gryffindor grandstand applauded wildly,
deafeningly, and James saw dozens of smiling and shouting faces turning to
view Harry's reaction. He waved and nodded curtly, half standing to receive
the accolade.
"You'd think the Queen was in attendance," James heard Harry mutter
as he sat back down.
"And now, here come the Ravenclaws," Damien called, his voice
echoing around the pitch. "Headed by Captain Gennifer Tellus, fresh from
last year's tournament victory."
The Ravenclaw team burst from the opposite side of the grandstand
like fireworks, each flyer pulling off into a different direction, weaving
through each other and tossing a Quaffle from player to player with speed
that defied the eye. After several seconds of spiraling wildly and apparently
randomly around the grandstands, the Ravenclaws streaked simultaneously
into the center of the pitch, pulled to a sudden stop, then spun on their

broomsticks to face the crowd in all directions. Each player raised their
right arm, and Gennifer, in the center, held the Quaffle over her head. There
was wild cheering from the Ravenclaw grandstand, and cheers of
appreciation and respect from the rest.
Finally, Gennifer and Justin flew into position in the center of the
pitch, nodding greetings as the teams took up formation behind their
captains. Beneath them, standing in the center-mark of the pitch in his
official's tunic, Cabriel Ridcully held the Quaffle under his arm, his foot
resting on the Quidditch trunk.
"I want to see a clean match," he called up to the players. "Captains,
ready? Players in formation? Annnnd…" He hefted the Quaffle in his
massive palm, arm outstretched. "Quaffle in play!"
Ridcully heaved the Quaffle straight up and simultaneously lifted his
foot from the Quidditch trunk. The trunk sprang open, releasing the two
Bludgers and the Snitch. All four balls shot upwards, merging with the
players as they exploded into motion. The grandstands erupted into cheers
and wild shouting.
James remembered to look for Zane among the Ravenclaws. His blond
hair wasn't hard to find against the royal blue of his cloak. He spun through
a knot of players, executing a surprisingly tight barrel roll, then leaned
precariously and backhanded a Bludger as it banked around the group. The
Bludger missed its target, but only because Noah ducked and rolled aside at
just the right moment. The crowd roared in mingled delight and
disappointment.
The heat of the summer evening was unusually fierce. The lowering
sun beat down on players and spectators alike. On the ground, both teams
had marked out team cool down areas, one at each end of the pitch. Each
area held a dozen large buckets filled with water. Occasionally, a flyer
would perform a wand signal, alerting the team's cool down crew. One
member of the crew would use his wand to levitate the water out of one of
the buckets, so that it floated thirty feet over the pitch like a solid, wobbling
bubble. Then, just as the flyer swooped into position, another crew member

would point his wand at the levitating ball of water, exploding it into a
cloud of droplets just as the player flew through it. The crowd laughed
delightedly every time a player emerged from the rainbow-laden mist,
shaking water from their hair and joining the fray again, happily refreshed.
Gryffindor took the lead early on, but Ravenclaw began a steady
comeback that stretched into the evening. The sun was setting by the time
Ravenclaw overtook Gryffindor, and the match took on that feverish, hectic
tone that only very close games can sustain. James watched the Seekers,
trying to get a glimpse of the elusive Snitch, but he couldn't see any sign of
the tiny golden ball. Then, just as he looked away, there was a flash of
setting sunlight on something over the Hufflepuff grandstand. James
squinted, and there it was, flitting in and out of the banner poles. The
Ravenclaw team's Seeker had already seen it. James shouted to Noah, the
Gryffindor Seeker, jumping to his feet and pointing. Noah spun around on
his broom, looking wildly. He saw the Snitch just as it angled down,
directly into the melee of circling flyers and careening Bludgers.
The Ravenclaw Seeker lunged as the Snitch streaked past him. He
almost fell off his broom, turned the fall into a diving loop, and doubled
back toward the match. Ted, one of Gryffindor's Beaters, aimed a Bludger
at Ravenclaw's Seeker, making the boy duck and weave, but not deterring
him from his course. Noah was approaching from the other side of the field,
ducking and banking wildly through the other flyers. The rest of the crowd
caught on to what was happening. As one, the spectators leaped to their
feet, shouting and cheering. And then, just at the very height of the action,
James saw something else that completely distracted him from the match
for the first time since it had begun.
The Muggle intruder was down on the field, standing just to the side
of the Ravenclaw cool down area. James could hardly believe he was seeing
it, but the man was simply standing, wearing a cast-off cloak from one of
the cool down crew, staring up into the match with an expression of total
awe and bewilderment. He was holding something to his eye, and James
recognized vaguely that it was some sort of handheld Muggle camera. He
was filming the match! James tore his gaze away from the intruder and

looked up at his dad, who stood next to him, shouting happily at the end-ofgame brawl. James yanked Harry's robes and yelled up at him.
"Dad! Dad, there's someone down there!" He pointed wildly, trying to
indicate the Quidditch pitch through the throng of standing, waving
spectators.
Harry looked at James, still smiling, trying to hear. "What?" he yelled,
leaning toward James.
"Down there!" James shouted, still pointing. "He's not supposed to be
here! He's a Muggle! I've seen him here before!"
Harry's face changed instantly. The smile snapped shut. Harry stood up
to his full height and scanned the field. James glanced back down as well,
searching for the Muggle intruder. He was sure he'd be gone and that James
would be left looking like a fool, but the man was still there, staring up into
the melee above. He had lowered his camera, James saw. It dangled from
his right hand. James looked closer and saw that the man had bandages on
his upper arm, and smaller bandages taped to two places on his face. He had
gotten hurt crashing through the stained-glass window, but apparently not
hurt enough to avoid coming back.
Harry was pushing past the American delegation, excusing himself
politely but firmly, heading toward the stairs. James followed, trotting to
keep up. Together, they traversed the stairs two by two, heading down to
field level. James recognized that his dad was in full Auror mode now, not
thinking, really, but letting instinct take over. There was no sense of panic
or worry or anger, just businesslike purpose and unstoppability. Harry
reached the field with James right behind him just as the game ended. There
was a thunderous ovation and suddenly people were running onto the field.
The cool down crews came out to collect the empty buckets. The teams
began to come in for landings, dropping to the pitch like dandelion seeds.
Cabe Ridcully strode across the center line, using his wand to summon the
game balls. Undeterred, Harry walked purposefully toward the end of the
field where he and James had seen the strange man, but now that they were
on the pitch, they couldn't see him anymore. There were too many people

moving about, too much noise and confusion. James knew that there were a
hundred ways the man could already have slunk away, disappearing into the
spreading shadows of the hills and woods beyond the pitch.
Harry didn't stop moving until he stood on the spot they'd seen the man
standing. He turned slowly, taking in the sights from what would have been
the man's perspective.
"There," he pointed. James looked and saw that his dad was pointing at
the base of one of the grandstands, at the doorway leading into the
Ravenclaws' holding pen. "Or there. Or there," Harry said, talking partly to
James and partly to himself, indicating first the path that ran between the
Hufflepuff and Slytherin grandstands and then pointing at the equipment
shed. "He probably wouldn't choose the shed, since he'd know there was no
back way out. At best, it's a hiding place, and he'd be looking to get away,
not hide. The grandstand exit would just take him farther in. No, he'd
choose the path, then. It's only been two minutes. James?"
James looked up at his dad, eyes wide. "Yeah?"
"Tell the Headmistress what we saw and have Titus meet me at the
entrance to that path in five minutes. Don't run. We don't know what this is
about and we don't need to cause any concern yet. Just walk fast and tell
them what I said. OK?"
James nodded briskly, and then turned back the way he and his dad
had come, reminding himself not to run. As he climbed the steps, pressing
through the departing crowd, not even knowing yet who'd won the match,
he realized how utterly gratified he was that his dad had believed him. In
some small part of his mind, James had been worried that his dad would
doubt him, perhaps even dismiss his concerns. But James had counted on
the hope that his dad knew him better than that, that his dad would trust
him. Harry had done just that, descending to the field to investigate the
strange man without any question or hesitation. Of course, that was how
Aurors worked. Investigate first, then ask questions if any are required.
Still, James was extremely glad that his dad had trusted him enough to go
after the man based solely on James' word.

Despite his relief at his dad's response, however, James was sorely
disappointed that the man had gotten away so easily. Somehow, he knew
that Harry and Titus would not find any sign of the man or any clue of
where he'd gone. Then, James would be right back where he'd started, with
nothing but the glimpse of an unknown person on the Quidditch pitch to
back up his story.
Thinking that, he finally caught up to Titus Hardcastle and the rest of
the group. When he gave them his messages from Harry, Titus excused
himself with a word and headed briskly down the stairs, his hand in the
pocket he kept his wand in. McGonagall and the Ministry officials listened
to James' explanation of the man he and Harry had seen on the field, the
Headmistress with a look of stern attentiveness, Ms. Sacarhina and Mr.
Recreant with looks of mild puzzlement.
"You say he had some sort of camera, dear boy?" Sacarhina asked
mildly.
"Yeah, I've seen them before. It makes movies. He was filming the
match."
Sacarhina looked at Recreant with a strange expression that James
took for disbelief. He wasn't surprised, and he didn't really care. He was
more concerned that McGonagall believe him. He was about to tell her the
man was the same man that he'd accidently kicked through the window, but
something about the expression on Sacarhina's face made him decide to
wait until they were in private.
On the way down the steps again, flanked by McGonagall, the
Ministry officials, and the Alma Alerons, James finally heard the score. It
turned out that Ravenclaw had won the game. James felt annoyed and
deflated, but he took some comfort in knowing that at least Zane was
probably having a good evening.

When they reached the path leading back to the castle, Headmistress
McGonagall sidestepped out of the line.
"Professors and guests, please feel free to return to the castle on your
own. I prefer to attend to this situation in person," she said briskly and
turned to cross the field. James darted to follow her. When he caught up
with her, she glanced down at him.
"I suppose it would be pointless for me to tell you this is no business
of a first-year student," she said, apparently choosing, against her better
judgment, not to send James up to the castle. "The Auror in charge being
your father, he'd probably ask for you to be there, no less. One wonders
how he is able to keep his head on straight without Miss Granger to reel
him in."
It took James a moment to realize 'Miss Granger' was Aunt Hermione,
whose last name was now Weasley. He couldn't help smiling at the thought
that the Headmistress still tended to think of his dad and aunt and uncle as
troublesome, if generally likeable, little kids.
By the time they reached the head of the path that cut between the
Slytherin and Hufflepuff grandstands, Harry and Titus Hardcastle were
coming back from their cursory examination of the area.
McGonagall spoke first, "Any sign of the intruder?"
"Nothing so far," Hardcastle said gruffly. "Too dry for footprints and
too dark to pick up his trail without a team or a dog."
"Madam Headmistress," Harry said, and James could tell his dad was
still in Auror mode, "may we have your permission to conduct a broader
search of the area? We'd require the help of a small crew of our choosing."
"You believe that this individual is a threat?" the Headmistress asked
Harry before answering.

Harry spread his hands and shrugged. "There's no way of knowing
without more information. But I do know that the man I saw was too old to
be a student, nor did I recognize him as any of the faculty or staff. He was
wearing a cloak from one of the ground crew as an attempt at disguise, so
he was certainly hiding from someone, if not everyone. And James tells me
he's seen this person on the grounds before."
Everyone looked at James. "He's the one I told you about the other
morning, ma'am," James explained, addressing the Headmistress. "I'm sure
of it. He had bandages on his arm and face. I think he got hurt when I
knocked him through the window."
"I knew that would be an interesting story," Harry muttered, suppressing a
smile.
"But certainly, Mr. Potter, Mr. Hardcastle," McGonagall said, looking
at the adults, "you realize there is no conceivable way that anyone could
overcome the protective perimeter of the school. Anyone you saw simply
must have been permitted to be on the grounds, otherwise…"
"You're right, Minerva," Harry said. "But the individual I saw didn't act
as if he believed he was permitted to be here. So the question is, if he's been
allowed in, who gave the permission, and how? These are questions I'd very
much like to ask, but our only hope of doing so rest on our beginning a
search of the grounds immediately."
McGonagall met Harry's eyes, nodded reluctantly, then more certainly.
"Of course. Who do you require?"
"I'd like Hagrid, for starters. No one knows these grounds like him,
and of course, we'll want Trife. We'd like to split into three teams: Hagrid
with Trife, myself leading a team into the Forbidden Forest, and Titus
heading the other team around the perimeter of the lake. We'll need more
sets of eyes to watch for sign. Too bad Neville is away tonight."
"We could summon him back," Hardcastle commented.

Harry shook his head. "I don't think that's necessary. We're looking for
a single individual, possibly a Muggle. All we really need are a couple
people who know how to spot a trail. How about Teddy Lupin and you,
James?"
James tried not to look too pleased, but a thrill of pride went through
him. He nodded at his dad with what he hoped looked like duty and
confidence, instead of giddy excitement.
"Does the school keep any hippogriffs at the moment, Madam?" Titus
rumbled. "A view from above is what's called for here. If the man's been on
the grounds before, he must be camped out nearby."
"No, none at the moment, Mr. Hardcastle. We have Thestrals, of
course."
Harry shook his head. "Too light. Thestrals can only carry one person,
and none as heavy as Titus or myself. Hagrid would break one right in
half."
James was thinking hard. "How high do you have to be?"
Hardcastle looked sideways at James. "Higher than man-height's really
all that matters. High enough to get a bird's-eye view of the ground, but
slow enough to be able to study it. You've an idea? Spill it, son."
"What about giants?" James said after a pause. He was worried it was
a stupid idea. Mostly, he was afraid of losing the respect his dad had shown
him by inviting him along on the search. "There's Grawp, who's tall as some
trees, and his new lady friend. Hagrid says she's even bigger than your
regular giant."
Hardcastle glanced at Harry, his expression unreadable. Harry looked
considering. "How fast do you think Hagrid can get them here?" he asked,
addressing the question to the Headmistress.

"That's certainly a question worth asking," she said, a little archly,
"seeing as I had no idea we now had two giants living among us. I'll go and
request their services from Hagrid personally." She turned to James. "Go
and fetch Mr. Lupin, and tell no one what you are up to. Both of you meet
your father at Hagrid's cottage with cloak and wand within fifteen minutes.
I'll need to return to the castle to see to our guests."
"And James," Harry said, smiling that crooked smile, "now, you can
run."

James was out of breath by the time he reached the common room. He
found Ted still in his Quidditch jersey, moping with several other players in
a corner alcove.
"Ted, come here!" James called, catching his breath. "We don't have
much time."
"That's no way to enter a room," Sabrina said, turning to look at James
over the back of the couch. "One might get the rather inescapable
impression that you were up to something."
"I am. We are," James said, leaning forward, his hands on his knees.
"But I can't tell you right now. Not allowed to. Afterwards. But they want
you, Ted. We're supposed to be at Hagrid's cabin in five minutes. Wand and
cloak."
Ted jumped up, apparently happy to forget the first loss of the season
and always ready to tag along for an adventure. "Well, we all knew this day
would come. Finally, my unique skills and insight are being recognized.
We'll regale you with the story of our adventure, assuming we live to tell
the tale. Lead on, James."

Ted stuffed his wand into his pocket and slung his cloak over his
shoulder. As both boys strode through the portrait hole, James still panting,
Ted strutting and rock-jawed, Sabrina called after them, "Bring more
Butterbeers when you get back, oh mighty ones."
On the way around the balcony, James was dismayed to see Zane
wave at him from across the stairwell. He detoured to meet them at the
landing.
"Hey, Ted, great game!"
Ted growled, annoyed to be reminded of it.
"Where you going?" Zane asked, trotting to keep up with James and
Ted.
"Adventure and mortal peril, I'm thinking," Ted replied. "You want to
come?"
"Yeah! What's the plan?"
"No!" James exclaimed. "Sorry. I'm not supposed to tell anyone about
it but Ted. My dad said--"
Zane's eyebrows shot up. "Your dad? Cool! Serious Auror stuff! Come
on, you can't run off to have Harry Potter-style adventures without your
buddy Zane, can you?"
James stopped in the main hall, exasperated. "All right! You can
follow us out, but if Dad says you have to come back in and be quiet about
it, you have to. All right?"
"Woohoo!" Zane called, running ahead of them down the steps into the
courtyard. "Come on, you guys. Adventure and really wild stuff awaits!"
Harry and Titus Hardcastle were standing outside Hagrid's cabin with

their wands lit by the time the three boys arrived.
"Thanks for coming, Ted," Harry said, his face stoic. "And Zane, as
well, who I hadn't exactly expected."
"I asked him to come, Harry," Ted said, effecting a grave expression.
"He's new, but he's sharp. I thought he might be of service, depending on
what you're planning." Ted studied Zane critically. Zane wiped the grin off
his face and attempted to look serious, without much success. Harry studied
them both.
"Mainly, we just need eyes. Since Zane has as many of those as the
rest of us, I guess he's qualified. Let's just hope Minerva doesn't find out I
took another first year into the forest or she'll bloody well figure out a way
to give us all detention. James hasn't told you what we're doing here
tonight?"
Ted shook his head. "Nary a word. Just said it was top-secret, hush-hush
stuff."
Harry slid an eye toward James. "The Headmistress told you not to say
anything, my boy."
"I didn't!" James protested, shooting a look at Ted. "I just said I wasn't
allowed to tell anyone what we were doing!"
"Best way to get people suspicious, James, is to tell them not to ask."
But Harry didn't seem angry. In fact, he seemed a little amused. "No matter,
though. We'll be done and back to the castle before your Gremlin friends
mount any kind of reconnaissance. Right, Ted?"
"They're probably tucked into their beds even as we speak, Godfather,"
Ted said primly. Harry rolled his eyes.
James became aware of a dull rumbling underfoot. Moments later, he
heard the distant barking of Trife, Hagrid's bullmastiff, who had long since
succeeded his beloved boarhound, Fang. Everyone present turned toward

the woods as the rumbling underfoot became a rhythmic pounding. After a
minute, huge shapes loomed in the darkness, lumbering between the trees,
their footfalls shaking the ground. Trife bounded in and out of the giants'
legs, apparently unfazed by the fact that he'd be squashed to putty if one of
them accidentally stepped on him. He barked up at them excitedly, his
normally substantial frame dwarfed by the plodding figures. Hagrid
followed, occasionally calling at Trife to quiet down, but with no real
conviction.
"Grawp was easy to bring along," Hagrid called, stepping out of the
forest. "He always wants to help. Got himself a great big heart o' gold, he
does. Gettin' better and better with his words, too. His lady friend,
though…" He dropped his voice as he approached Harry, affecting a
secretive pose that James thought was about as subtle as a banshee in a
matchbox. "She's not quite so used to being around folks as Grawp is.
Didn't take too well to being woken up, either. Barely understands a word
we say, but it seems best just to keep on talkin' to her as if she does. She'll
come along all right, so long as we take it slow with her."
James reminded himself that this was the same Hagrid who had raised
Blast-Ended Skrewts for fun, and persisted in thinking that the primary
characteristic of dragons was their cuteness. Any warning from Hagrid
about a creature's temperament, therefore, was definitely worth hearing.
Everyone turned to greet the giants as they emerged from the trees. Grawp
came first, blinking and smiling in the wand-light. He waved a piano-sized
hand at Harry.
"Hullo, Harry," Grawp's voice was deep and slow. James had the
impression that making words wasn't quite what it had been designed for.
"How Herm-ay-nown… Her-mime-nin…"
Harry tried to save Grawp the effort. "Hermione is fine, Grawp. She
would say hello if she had known I'd be seeing you."
This seemed to be more than Grawp could quite wrap his mind around.
"Hullo, Herme

nimminie…" He continued working through Hermione's name as the shegiant emerged tentatively from the forest behind him. James craned his
neck, feeling an involuntary thrill of fear course down his spine. The shegiant was so tall that she had to push the canopy of the trees apart as she
stepped out of the forest, cracking and snapping branches. The wand-light
only reached her chest, which was roughly about the same height as
Grawp's head. Her head was merely a shadowed shape moving above the
treetops, outlined against the starry sky. She moved slower than Grawp,
ponderously, her great feet coming down to the ground like falling
millstones, shaking leaves from the nearby trees with each step.
"So much for stealth," Hardcastle commented, staring up at the
monstrous figure.
"Harry, Titus, James, Zane, and Ted," Hagrid called out very slowly,
"meet Prechka. Prechka, these are friends."
Prechka bent down slightly so that her head hovered over Grawp's
shoulder. She made a low, interrogative grunt that James thought actually
rattled the windows in Hagrid's cottage. Harry raised his lit wand over his
head and smiled. "Prechka, Grawp, thank you both for coming and helping
us. We won't keep you long, I hope. Hagrid has explained what we are
asking you to do tonight, has he?"
Grawp gathered himself to speak. "Harry look for sneaking man.
Grawp and Prechka help."
"Excellent," Harry said, turning to address the group. "Hagrid, you
take Trife and get him on the scent from the path. See if he can pick up
anything leading off the trail into the forest or around the lake. If so, send
up a red signal. Ted, you'll be with me and Prechka in the forest. Zane,
James, you'll both join Titus and Grawp searching the perimeter of the lake.
We're searching for a back trail as much as we're looking for the intruder
himself, so watch for broken branches, disturbed undergrowth and ground
leaves, and anything human-related, such as bits of cloth, trash, papers, or
anything of that nature. Everyone clear?"

"Who're we looking for, Harry?" Ted asked.
Harry was already approaching Prechka slowly. "We'll know that when
we find him, won't we?"

8. The Grotto Keep
Zane, James, and Hardcastle climbed onto Grawp's back as the giant
squatted down. James and Zane both clambered onto a shoulder, gripping
Grawp's ragged shirt for support. Hardcastle, apparently oblivious to how
ridiculous it might look, straddled the back of Grawp's neck like a kid being
carried by his dad. He held his lit wand up and out, spreading a halo of light
onto the ground around them, and then directed Grawp toward the lake. As
they left, Harry and Ted were still working out the best method to get onto
Prechka's shoulders.

"Do we need a ladder, you think?" Ted called.
"Get her to bend all the way over, with her hands on the ground,"
Harry called, waving up to the she-giant, who had kneeled, but become
distracted by Hagrid's garden. She pulled up a handful of pumpkins, roots
and all, and began stuffing them into her mouth.
"That's right, that's right," Hagrid called soothingly. "Just lean over
here a bit. There we go. Oh!"
There was a sharp wooden crunch as Prechka leaned on Hagrid's
wagon, crushing it to kindling.
Hagrid patted the gigantic elbow, shaking his head. "Oy, at least yeh
can climb up now, Harry. Just use the wall there as a step. There yeh go."
Prechka was being coaxed upright again, Harry and Ted perched on
her shoulders, when Grawp entered the woods lining the west side of the
lake and all view of the Hogwarts grounds vanished behind dense, stunted
trees.
Grawp was surprisingly gentle, turning sideways and ducking to avoid
branches that might knock his cargo off his back. James could feel the
weight of Grawp's footsteps pressing into the ground far below, but
experienced none of the shudder and thump he had expected to feel riding
on a giant's back. Hardcastle directed Grawp quietly, being seated almost
right next to the giant's ear. He led them in an orderly zigzag, approaching
the lake, and then turning back into the thick of the wood again, slowly
advancing around the perimeter. Their progress was slow and the motion of
Grawp's walking began to rock James into sleepiness. He shook himself
awake, studying the ground below for any of the signs his dad had
described. In an attempt to keep himself awake, he explained to Hardcastle
and Zane how he had seen the unidentified man on the Quidditch pitch. He
told them about the camera, and described the other two times he'd seen the
man on the grounds.

"You've seen this person three times, then?" Hardcastle asked, his
voice a gravelly monotone.
"Yeah," James nodded.
"But apart from your dad tonight, no one else has seen him at all?"
James felt rankled by that, but answered directly. "No. Nobody."
They were silent again for a while. James guessed that they had
travelled approximately a third of the way around the perimeter. He saw
glimpses of the castle looming over the lake whenever they neared its edge.
The woods seemed annoyingly untouched and normal. Crickets buzzed and
creaked, filling the night air with their strange chorus. Everywhere James
looked, fireflies stitched the shadows, going about their nocturnal business.
There was no sign that anyone had ever been through this wood, much less
anyone recently.
"Stop, Grawp," Hardcastle said suddenly, his voice tense. Grawp
stopped obediently and stood still. His massive head turned slightly as he
looked around. James peered around Grawp's enormous, dirty ear, trying to
see what Hardcastle was looking at or listening for. Half a minute crept by.
James knew not to speak. Then, in the near distance, there was a harsh
scurrying sound. Something scrambled, unseen, through the fallen leaves
and stopped again. A branch creaked, as if it were being stepped on. James'
heart was suddenly pounding. Still, neither Grawp nor Hardcastle moved.
James saw Hardcastle turn his head slightly, trying to pinpoint the direction
of the sound.
It came again, nearer this time, but still unseen. It was ahead of them,
behind a low rise on the woods side of their path. James couldn't help
thinking that there was something distinctly inhuman about the scurrying
sound. It was, somehow, too busy. The hair at the base of his neck prickled.
Hardcastle tapped the back of Grawp's head lightly and pointed toward
the ground, reaching so Grawp could see his hand. James felt the giant

lower, and was surprised again at the slow grace of the motion. The leaves
underfoot crackled only slightly as Grawp put his hands on the ground.
Hardcastle slid silently off Grawp's back. His eyes were locked on the low
rise ahead.
"Stay with--"
He was interrupted by the noise of scrambling movement. It was much
closer this time, and now James saw the motion of it. Dead leaves scattered
into the air as a large, shadowy form scuttled over the rise, moving with
horrible speed. It darted in and out of the trunks of the trees, crashing
through bushes. It seemed to have far too many legs, and there was a
strange bluish glow emanating from its front. It flickered wildly as the thing
moved. Hardcastle leaped in front of Grawp as the thing approached. He
flicked his wand with the practiced economy of a trained Auror, sending red
Stunning Spells into the thrashing brush and leaves. The creature changed
course, skirting around them and into a gully. The flickering blue glow
marked its progress as it skittered over dead logs, retreating deeper into the
wood.
"Stay with Grawp, you two," Hardcastle growled, setting off after the
creature at a run. "Grawp, if anything other than me comes back, crush it."
He moved with amazing agility for his size. Within fifteen seconds, neither
he nor the retreating creature could be seen or heard. The two boys jumped
off Grawp's shoulders to peer down into the gully.
"What was that?" Zane asked breathlessly.
James shook his head. "I'm not even sure I want to know. It definitely
wasn't the guy we're looking for."
"I'm glad of that," Zane said with conviction.
They watched the gully that Hardcastle and the creature had vanished
into. The incessant chorus of crickets and the flashing of the fireflies filled
the woods again, seeming to deny that anything unusual was happening.
There was no noise or movement from the gully.

"How far will he chase that thing?" Zane finally asked.
James shrugged. "Until he catches it, I guess."
"Or it catches him," Zane added, shuddering. "You know, I felt a lot
better about this when we were up on the big guy's shoulders."
"Good idea," James agreed, turning. "Hey, Grawp, how about--"
He stopped. Grawp was gone. Zane and James glanced around for
several seconds, both too stunned and spooked to say anything. "There!"
Zane said suddenly, stabbing a finger in the direction of the lake. James
looked. Grawp was just disappearing around a gigantic, moss-bearded
boulder, lumbering slowly. "Come on! Don't let him get out of sight!"
Both boys scampered after the giant, crawling over huge fallen trees
and slipping on leaf-covered rocks. They rounded the house-sized boulder
they had seen Grawp pass. Grawp was even further away, ducking under a
leaning, dead tree.
"Where's he going?" Zane cried exasperatedly.
"Grawp!" James called, hesitant to yell too loudly for fear of attracting
any more of the horrible, scuttling creatures. The night had gone dim.
Heavy, marching clouds obscured the moon, reducing the woods to a
muddle of grey shadows. "Grawp, come back! What are you doing?"
For several minutes, Zane and James followed Grawp's trail, struggling
through creek beds and over tree trunks that the giant traversed in one step.
Finally, they caught up to him near the edge of the lake, where a group of
small, wooded islands obscured the view across the water. The air smelled
damp and mossy and was dense with buzzing insects. Grawp stood under a
gnarled tree, methodically plucking walnuts off the branches and popping
them into his mouth, shell and all. He crunched them audibly as the boys
approached, panting.

"Grawp!" Zane cried, struggling to catch his breath. "What're you
doing?"
Grawp glanced down at the sound of Zane's voice, his expression
quizzical. "Grawp hungry," he answered. "Grawp smell food. Grawp eat
and wait. Little man comes back."
"Grawp, we're lost now! Titus won't even know where we are!" James
said, trying to control his anger. Grawp stared at him, still crunching
walnuts, his expression one of mild bewilderment.
"Never mind," Zane said. "Let him chomp some nuts, then we'll get
him to carry us back the way we came." He plopped onto a nearby rock and
examined the scrapes and bruises he'd gotten during the chase. James
grimaced in annoyance. He knew there was no point in arguing with the
giant.
"All right," he said tersely. "Grawp, just carry us back when you're
done. Got it?"
Grawp grunted agreement, pulling one of the larger tree branches
down to him so that it creaked ominously.
James wandered disconsolately toward the water's edge, pushing
reeds and bushes aside. The lake looked more like a creek here, with only a
narrow stretch of mossy water between the shore and one of the marshy
islands. The island was wild, covered with densely packed bushes and trees.
It had the look of a place that was underwater at least part of the year.
Twenty feet away, a group of trees had fallen away from the island. James
assumed they'd been pried loose from their watery roots by a recent storm.
The scene was remarkably ugly and foreboding in the shadowy night.
James had just decided to turn back, worried that Hardcastle would be
looking for them, when the moon came out. As the silvery light spread
across the woods, James stopped, a slow, gravid chill shaking him from
head to toe. The crickets had fallen suddenly and completely silent. James

felt rooted to the spot, frozen except for his eyes, which roamed the
surrounding woods. The silence of the crickets wasn't the only change. The
perpetual, myriad flashes of the fireflies had also ceased. The wood had
gone completely and suddenly still in the wash of moonlight.
"James?" Zane's voice came, tentative in the sudden, oppressive
silence. "Is this… you know… normal?" He joined James at the edge of the
lake. "And what's the deal with that place?"
James glanced at Zane. "What place?" He followed Zane's eyes, and
then gasped.
The island that lay just off the shore had changed. James could tell that
no individual part of it was different, exactly. It was just that, what had
appeared as totally random trees and bushes a minute before, now, in the
silvery moonlight, looked much more like a hidden, ancient structure. There
was the unmistakable suggestion of pillars and gates, buttresses and
gargoyles, all crafted out of the island's natural growth as if it were a sort of
incredibly complex optical illusion.
"I do not like the look of that joint," Zane said emphatically, his voice
low.
James looked further. The group of trees that had fallen across the
water, connecting the island to the shore, had changed as well. James could
see that there was order to them. Two of them had fallen together so that
they formed what was obviously a bridge. The bridge was even stylized,
fashioned to resemble a gigantic dragon's head. A brown rock jutting from
the upturned roots served as the eye. Two more trees, only half collapsed,
formed the open upper jaw, jutting out over the bridge as if to snap down on
anyone that attempted to cross.
James walked carefully toward the bridge.
"Hey, you're not going in there, are you?" Zane called. "That doesn't
look so healthy to me."

"Come on," James said, not looking back. "You said you wanted
adventure and really wild stuff."
"Well, actually I think I just want those things in little bitty doses. I
had enough with that crazy monster we saw already, if you don't mind."
James skirted an outcropping of bushes and spindly trees and found
himself standing at the mouth of the bridge. Closer to, it was even more
perfect. There were handrails formed by fallen birches, smooth and easy to
grip, and the two trees that formed the floor of the bridge were so close
together, with vines and leaves packed between them, that they made an
easy walking surface.
"Fine, stay here," James said, not really blaming Zane for his
reluctance. The mystery of it was strangely attractive to James, though. He
stepped onto the bridge.
"Ahh, sheesh," Zane moaned, following.
On the island side of the bridge, a complicated growth of vines and
small trees had formed into a set of tall, ornate gates. Beyond them was
impenetrable shadow. As James crept closer, he could see that the vines
formed a recognizable pattern across the gates.
"I think it spells something," he said, his voice almost a whisper.
"Look. It's a poem, or a rune or something."
As soon as he was able to make out the first word, the rest sprang into
view, as if he'd just had to train his eye to see it. He stopped and read aloud:
When by the light of Sulva bright
I found the Grotto Keep;
Before the night of time requite

Did wake his languid sleep.
Upon return the fretted dawn
With not a relic lossing;
Bygone a life, a new eon,
The Hall of Elders' Crossing.
Something about the poem made James shudder.
"What's it mean?" Zane asked when he'd read it over twice.
James shrugged. "Sulva is an old word for 'moon'. I know that. I think
the first part just means you can only find this place when the moon shines
on it. That's got to be true, because when I first saw it in the dark, it just
looked like some ugly old island. So this must be the Grotto Keep, whatever
that is."
Zane leaned in. "What about this part? 'Upon return the fretted dawn'.
Sounds like we're supposed to come back when the sun comes back up, eh?
Sounds pretty good to me."
Ignoring Zane, James wrapped his hands around the gates and gave
them a hard yank. They rattled woodenly, but didn't budge. The action
seemed to trigger a response from the island. A sudden, creeping sound
came from beneath the boys' feet. James glanced down, and then jumped
backwards as tendrils of thorny vines grew up from underneath the bridge.
The vines twined through the gate, weaving up it with a noise like a
newspaper in a fire. The thorns were an ugly purple color, as if they might
contain some sort of venom. They grew longer as James watched. After a
minute, the gates were completely entwined with them, obscuring the words
of the poem. The noise of their growth died away.

"Well, that settles that, then," Zane said in a strangely high voice. He
was standing behind James, backing away slowly. "I think this place wants
to be left alone, don't you?"
"I want to try one more thing," James said, pulling his wand out from
beneath his cloak. Without really thinking about it, he aimed his wand at the
gate. "Alohomora."
There was a streak of golden light, and this time, the result was
immediate and powerful. The gates repelled the spell, obliterating it in a
burst of sparks, and the entire island seemed to shiver, to tense menacingly.
There was a sound like a thousand people suddenly breathing in, and then a
voice, an entirely inhuman, swarming sort of voice, spoke.
"Get… Thee… Hence!"
James stumbled backwards at the vehemence of the response,
tumbling into Zane and knocking them both to the floor of the bridge. The
bridge shuddered beneath them, and then James saw that the gates were
swaying, leaning over them. The trees overhead, the ones that were
fashioned to appear as the upper jaw of the dragon's head bridge, were
creaking down, looming, their broken branches looking more and more like
teeth.
"Get… Thee… Hence!" the island said again. The voice sounded like
it was comprised of millions of tiny voices, whispering and raspy, speaking
in unison.
The floor of the bridge buckled, tearing loose of the shore. The upper
jaws crackled and began to collapse, ready to devour the two boys. They
scrambled backwards, tumbling wildly over each other, and fell onto the
weedy shore just as the bridge ripped loose. The gigantic jaws snapped and
gnashed ferociously. Broken branches and bits of bark exploded from the
writhing shape, peppering James and Zane as they scuttled away, their
hands slipping on dead leaves and pine needles.

The ground rumbled under them. Roots began to burrow up from the
dirt, tearing the earth apart. James felt the shore disintegrate beneath him.
His foot slipped into a sudden hole and he yanked it out, narrowly avoiding
a dirty, carrot-like root that writhed up out of it. He struggled for purchase
on the collapsing shore, but it sank beneath him, dragging him back toward
the water's edge. The surface of the lake roiled, rushing into the forming
sinkhole. The boys' feet splashed into the muck, and it sucked at them,
pulling them in. Zane grasped at the shore as he was pulled slowly into the
frothing water. James groped for purchase, but nothing seemed solid. Even
the tree roots revealed by the crumbling earth grew loose and slippery under
his hands, covered in a horrible slime that came off in coats.
Then, suddenly, there was Grawp. He dropped to his knees, gripping a
nearby tree trunk with one hand and reaching for Zane, who was nearer,
with the other. He plucked the boy from the murk and plopped him onto his
shoulder. Zane grasped for a handhold on Grawp's shirt as the giant lunged
down to retrieve James, who was nearly submerged in the thrashing waters.
A horrible, hairy root snaked across the water and curled around James'
ankle, yanking him back. He hung there, caught between Grawp's grip and
that of the horrid root, and James was sure he'd be torn in half by the force
of it. The root slipped on his pant leg and yanked his shoe off. James saw it
twine hungrily around the shoe and pull it under the surface.
Grawp tried to stand, but roots were ripping up from the ground all
around him. Huge, crackling wood tentacles twined his legs. Green vines
grew with lightning speed up the thicker tentacles, sewing themselves into
the fabric of his pants with tiny, threadlike roots. Grawp roared and yanked,
ripping his pants and tearing the roots further out of the ground, but their
combined force was too strong. They pulled him back to a kneeling
position, and then lunged up, circling his waist, climbing his back and
shoulders. The vines battened onto James and Zane, threatening to pull
them off. Grawp roared again as one of the green vines twisted around his
neck, forcing him lower, pulling him down into the sinkhole.
Just as James began to slip off Grawp's shoulder, pulled back toward
the ground by a dozen muscling vines, sudden, shocking light filled the air.
It was a vibrant golden green, and it was accompanied by a low humming

sound. The vines and roots recoiled from the light. They loosened, repulsed
by it, but were dreadfully reluctant to abandon their prey. Waves of the light
washed over them, and each wave loosened the tangling mass until the
smaller vines fell away as dead and the larger roots retreated, sucking back
down into the earth with a nasty, gurgling noise.
Grawp, James, and Zane half fell, half crawled up the bank until they
found firm ground. There they collapsed, panting and heaving, amid the
dead leaves and broken branches.
When James rolled over and pulled himself to a kneeling position,
there was a figure standing nearby, glowing faintly with the same golden
green light that had repulsed the vines. James could see through the figure,
although what he saw through it was both brightened and refracted, the way
things might look if seen through a raindrop. The figure looked like a
woman, very tall and very thin, in a dark green gown that fell straight from
her hips and, apparently, right through the ground. Her whitish-green hair
spread and flowed around her head like a corona. She was beautiful, but her
face was grave.
"James Potter, Zane Walker, Grawp, son of the earth, you are in danger
here. You must leave this wood. No human is safe under this canopy now."
James struggled to his feet. "Who are you? What was that?"
"I am a dryad, a spirit of the wood. I have managed to silence the
Voice of the Island, but I won't be able to hold it back for long. It grows
more restless with each day."
"A spirit of the wood?" Zane asked as Grawp helped him rather
roughly to his feet. "The woods have a ghost?"
"I am a dryad, a tree sprite, a spirit of a single tree. All the trees in the
wood have spirits, but they have been asleep for ages and ages, seeped
down into the earth, almost diminished. Until now. The naiads and dryads
have been awakened, though we know not why. Those few humans that

once communed with the trees are gone and forgotten. Our time is past. Yet
we are summoned."
"Who summoned you?" James asked.
"We have not been able to know that, despite our greatest efforts.
There is disharmony among us. Many trees remember only the saw of man,
not his replanting. They are old and angry, wishing only to do harm to the
world of men. They have gone over. You have experienced their wrath,
though not as they would have it."
"What do you mean they've 'gone over'?" Zane asked, taking half a
step closer, squinting at the dryad's beauty. "Is it that place? The island?
The… the Hall of Elder's Crossing?"
"Man's time is short on the earth, but we trees watch the years march
past like days. The stars are motionless to you, but we watch and study the
heavens as a dance," the dryad said, her voice becoming soft, almost
dreamy. "Since our awakening, the dance of the stars has become dire,
showing a thousand dark destinies for the world of men, all swinging on the
balance of the coming days. Only one possible destiny bears good. The rest
are heavy with bloodshed and loss. Great sorrow. Dark times, full of war
and greed, powerful tyrants, famines of terror. Much will be determined
within the closing of this cycle. We tree folk can only watch, for now, but
those of us who remain faithful to the memory of harmony between our
world and the world of men, when the time comes, we will help as we can."
James was almost hypnotized by the dryad's voice, but he felt a rising
sense of helplessness and frustration at her words. "But you said there is
one chance we can avoid this war. What can we do? How can we make the
one good destiny happen?"
The dryad's face softened. Her large, liquid eyes smiled sadly. "There
is no way to predict the path of a single action. It could be that you are
already doing that which will bring about peace. It could also be that the
very things you do to for good are the things that will result in war. You
must do what you know to do, but only with an unclouded mind."

Zane risked a derisive laugh. "Helpful stuff, there, Sensei."
"There are greater dangers in the fabric of destinies than you yet know,
James Potter," the dryad said, slipping closer to James so that her light
played across his face. "The enemy of your father, and of all who know
love, is dead. But his blood beats within a different heart. The blood of your
greatest enemy lives still."
James felt his knees grow watery. He wobbled, and then threw his
hand out, pressing it against a nearby tree for support. "Vol-Voldemort?" he
whispered.
The dryad nodded, apparently unwilling to say the name. "His
preferred plan was thwarted forever by your father. But he was infinitely
crafty. He prepared a second plan. A successor, a bloodline. The heart of
that bloodline beats today, at this moment, not one mile hence."
James' lips were trembling. "Who?" he asked in a barely audible voice.
"Who is it?"
But the dryad was already shaking her head sadly. "We are prevented
from knowing. Not from without, but from within. Those trees that have
gone over work against us, fog our vision, keep many of us asleep. We can
only know of that heartbeat, that it is there, but no more. You must beware,
James Potter. Your father's battle is over. Yours begins."
The dryad was fading. Her eyes slipped shut and even as she drifted
into nothingness, she already seemed to be asleep.
There was a creaking groan, then a splash from the island.
"Well," Zane said with manic cheerfulness, "what say we jump back
onto our giant buddy's shoulders and make this place a memory before it
does the same to us?"
The three of them met Titus Hardcastle before they were halfway back

to their starting point. His face was like a thunderstorm, but all he said was,
"Is everyone safe?"
"Safe enough," Zane called down from Grawp's shoulders. "But let me
tell you, we've had one weird time of it."
Grawp bent down to allow Hardcastle to climb onto his back. "It's
going around, then, isn't it?" Hardcastle grunted.
Zane held a hand out, intending to help Hardcastle climb up and
almost getting yanked from his seat instead. "So what was that thing you
were chasing, anyway?" he said, puffing.
"Spider. One of old Aragog's kin, no doubt. They've grown dumb in
the last decade or two, but that one had gone and found himself a toy."
Hardcastle held something up, and James saw that it was the little handheld
video camera that the intruder had been using on the Quidditch pitch. "It
was still working when I caught up to the brute, the little screen all lit up.
Got broken when I, er, dispatched the beast. At least it'd had a good last
meal."
James shuddered involuntarily as Grawp began to make his way back
through the woods. "You really think it… ate the guy?"
Hardcastle set his jaw. "Circle of life, James. Strictly speaking, though,
spiders don't eat people. They just suck their juices out. Ugly way to go, but
at least he's not a problem anymore."
James didn't say so, but he had a feeling that the real problems were
just beginning.

Wednesday morning, James felt sluggish and prickly as he entered the
Great Hall for breakfast. It was a thoroughly glum morning, with a low,

bruised sky filling the top portion of the Hall and a fine mist speckling the
windows. Ralph and Zane were seated at the Slytherin table, Zane blowing
on his traditional morning coffee and Ralph attacking an orange with a
butter knife, sawing through it, peel and all. They didn't appear to be talking
much. Zane wasn't typically a morning person, and he had been out just as
late as James had been. Neither Zane nor Ralph looked up, and James was
glad. He was still angry and disgusted with Ralph. Under that, though, he
was sad and hurt about the boy's betrayal. He tried not to feel resentment
toward Zane for sitting with Ralph, but he was too tired to make much of an
effort, and the mood of the morning wasn't helping.
James made his way to the Gryffindor table, glancing up at the dais as
he went. Neither his dad nor Titus Hardcastle were anywhere to be seen.
James figured that, despite the lateness of the previous night, they had still
risen and breakfasted shortly after dawn and were already about their
morning's business. The thought that his dad's and Titus' day was already
well underway, probably full of exciting meetings and secret intrigues,
while he was just now having breakfast on his way to a day of gloomy
classes and homework, filled him with melancholy. He found a seat
surrounded by happily babbling Gryffindors, plopped into it, and began to
eat methodically, joylessly.
The night before, James had been up with Titus Hardcastle, his dad,
and Headmistress McGonagall for almost two hours after their return from
the perimeter of the lake. Titus had sent up a wand signal as soon as they'd
reached the castle, summoning Harry, Ted, Prechka, and Hagrid back from
their forays. When they'd all assembled again by Hagrid's cottage, the
Headmistress dismissed Grawp and Prechka, thanking them both formally,
and offering them a barrel of Butterbeer for their efforts. After that, the
group convened in Hagrid's cottage, congregated around the huge, rough
table, drinking Hagrid's tea, which was suspiciously cloudy and brown and
tasted vaguely medicinal, and avoiding some rather stale biscuits.
Hardcastle had spoken first. He explained to everyone present how he
had first heard the spider, and then pursued it, leaving James and Zane in
the protection of Grawp. Harry had shifted in his seat, but refrained from
comment. After all, he had been the one to request that James go along on

the expedition, and had consented, albeit reluctantly, to Zane's
accompaniment. The Headmistress had pointed a rather long and
penetrating glare at Harry when she'd seen Zane enter the cottage. Now
McGonagall turned to Hardcastle, asking how he'd managed to kill the
spider.
Hardcastle's beady eyes glinted a little as he said, "Best way to kill a
spider that won't fit under your boot is to get its legs off. First one's the
hardest. After that, it gets easier and easier."
Hagrid wiped a hand over his face. "Poor ol' Aragog. If he'd lived to
see his young turn wild, it'd have killed him. Poor fellow was just doing
what spiders do. You can hardly blame him."
"The spider had the intruder's camera," Harry said, glancing down at
the broken object on the table. The lens was shattered and the little screen
on the back was cracked. "So we know the man escaped via the lake
woods."
"Nasty way to go, whoever he may have been," McGonagall said.
Harry's expression didn't change. "We don't know for certain that the
spider caught the man."
"Seems unlikely the thing asked to borrow his camera so it could make
home movies of its kids, doesn't it?" Hardcastle rumbled, "Spiders aren't the
polite type. They're the hungry type."
Harry nodded thoughtfully. "You're probably right, Titus. Still, there's
always the chance the intruder dropped the camera and the spider simply
found it. It wouldn't hurt to increase security for a while, Minerva. We don't
yet know how this person got in or who he was. Until we learn those things,
we have to assume there is an ongoing risk of breach."
"I'm particularly interested in knowing how this camera managed to
operate within the grounds," the Headmistress sniffed, staring hard at the

device on the table. "It is well-known that Muggle equipment of this sort
doesn't work inside the school's magical environment."
"That is indeed well-known, Madam Headmistress," Hardcastle
rumbled, "but very little understood. The Muggles are endlessly inventive
with their tools. What once was true may not be so anymore. And we all
know that the protective spells erected around the grounds since the Battle
are not quite as perfect as those maintained by old Dumbledore, God rest
his soul."
James thought of Ralph's GameDeck, but decided not to mention it.
The broken video camera was all the proof they needed that at least some
modern Muggle devices worked on the school grounds.
Finally, attention turned to James and Zane. James explained how
Grawp had wandered away in search of food, and how the two boys had
chased him, finding him by the lake and the marshy island. Zane chimed in
then, describing the mysterious island and the bridge. He carefully glossed
over the part where James had tried to open the gates using magic, and
James was glad. It had seemed foolish the very moment he'd done it, and he
regretted it. Still, at the time, it had felt so natural. They took turns telling of
the enchanted dragon's head bridge that attempted to eat them, then the
attacking vines that had almost pulled them all into the sinkhole. Finally,
James explained the tale of the tree sprite.
"Naiads and dryads?" Hagrid exclaimed incredulously. James and
Zane stopped, blinking at him. Hagrid went on, "Well, they're not for real,
are they? They're just stories and myth. Aren't they?" He addressed the last
question to the adults present.
"The lake woods are just an extension of the Forbidden Forest," Harry
said. "If there is a place where things like the naiads and dryads can exist,
it'd be there. Still, if it's true, they haven't been seen for hundreds of years.
Of course we'd think of them as myth."
"What do you mean, 'if it's true'?" James asked, a little louder than he'd
intended to. "We saw her. She spoke to us."

"Your father is being an Auror, James," McGonagall said placatingly.
"All possibilities must be considered. You were all under a great deal of
stress. It isn't that we don't believe you. We must simply determine the most
likely explanation for what you saw."
"Seems like the most likely explanation to me is that she was what she
said she was," James muttered under his breath.
James purposely hadn't told his dad or any of the other adults the last
thing the sprite had said, the part about the successor, the blood of the
enemy beating in another heart. Part of his reluctance was in his
remembrance of his dad's stories of how the wizarding world had treated
him, Harry Potter, when he'd returned from the Triwizard Tournament maze
with the tale of Voldemort's return, how he had been doubted and
discredited. Another part of it was that his dad wasn't even prepared to
believe the part about the dryad. If he doubted that, how could he accept
that the dryad had predicted a new kind of Voldemort's return, through an
heir, a bloodline? But the thing that had finally determined James not to tell
was his memory of the very last words the dryad had spoken: Your father's
battle is over. Yours begins.
The conversation had droned on long after all the details had been
described and discussed, long after James had grown bored with it. He
wanted to get back so that he could sleep, but more than that, he wanted
time to think about what the dryad had said. He wanted to work out what
the island was for, what the poem on the gate meant. He worked to
remember it, itching to write it down while it was still fresh in his mind. He
was sure, somehow, that it all fit in with the story of Austramaddux and the
secret plot of the Slytherins to bring back Merlin and start a final war with
the Muggle world. He wasn't even asking himself anymore if it was true. It
had to be true, and it was up to him to prevent it.
Finally, the adults finished talking. They had determined that the
mysterious island, while obviously dangerous, was just one of the many
mysterious and inexplicable dangers that made the Forbidden Forest
forbidden. The primary concern was still discovering how the intruder had

gotten in, and making sure no one else was able to do it again. With that
resolution, the meeting broke up.
Headmistress McGonagall had accompanied James, Zane, and Ted
back to the castle, instructing them to do their best to keep the discussions
of the night a secret.
"Especially you, Mr. Lupin," she said sternly. "The last thing we need
is you and your band of hooligans running off into the woods in the middle
of the night attempting to duplicate Mr. Potter's and Mr. Walker's
experiences."
Fortunately, Ted knew enough not to try to deny the possibility of such
a thing. He merely nodded and said, "Yes, ma'am."

James only saw his dad once more during his visit, and that was after
classes that evening, just as Harry, Titus, and the Ministry officials were
preparing to leave. Neville had returned to Hogwarts that afternoon, and he
chaperoned James to the Headmistress' office to say goodbye to Harry and
the rest. The group planned to travel via the Floo Network, as they had
arrived, and had decided upon the Headmistress' fireplace for their
departure since it was the most secure. If it struck Neville odd that the
office now belonged to his former teacher, who he'd known as Professor
McGonagall, instead of to Albus Dumbledore, he didn't let on. But he did
pause for a moment next to the portrait of the former headmaster.
"Off again, is he?" he asked Harry.
"I think he generally just sleeps here. Dumbledore's got portraits all
over the place," Harry sighed. "Not to mention all his old Chocolate Frog
cards. He still shows up in them sometimes just for fun. I keep mine in my
wallet, just in case." He pulled his wallet out and slipped a dog-eared card

out of it. The portrait space was empty. Harry grinned at Neville as he put it
back.
Neville moved to the group congregated around the fireplace. Harry
squatted down next to James.
"I wanted to thank you, James."
James hid the look of pride that surfaced on his face. "I was just doing
what you asked us to do."
"I don't just mean coming along with us and helping us find out what
happened," Harry said, putting a hand on James' shoulder. "I mean for
spying the intruder on the field and pointing him out to me. And for being
alert enough to see him the other times. You've got a sharp eye and an alert
mind, my boy. I shouldn't be surprised, and I'm not."
James grinned. "Thanks, Dad."
"Don't forget what we talked about the other night, though.
Remember?"
James remembered. "I won't be saving the world single-handedly." I'll
have at least Zane's help, he thought, but didn't say, and maybe Ted's, too,
now that Ralph's abandoned me.
Harry hugged his son, and James hugged him back. They grinned at
each other, Harry with his hands on James' shoulders, and then he stood,
leading James over to the fireplace.
"Tell Mum I'm doing good and eating my vegetables," James
instructed his dad.
"And are you?" Harry asked, raising one eyebrow.
"Well, yes and no," James said, a bit uncomfortable as everyone
looked at him.

"Make it true and I'll tell her," Harry said, removing his glasses and
tucking them into his robe.
Moments later, the room was empty but for James, Headmistress
McGonagall, and Neville.
"Professor Longbottom," the Headmistress said, "I suspect it'd be best
for me to inform you of all that has happened these past twenty hours."
"You mean regarding the campus intruder, Madam?" Neville asked.
The Headmistress looked markedly taken aback. "I see. Perhaps I
might simply be repeating myself, then. Do tell me what you've already
heard, Professor."
"Merely that, Madam. Word amongst the students is that a man was
seen or captured on the Quidditch pitch yesterday. The common theory is
that he was a representative of the gambling community either reporting on
or influencing the match. Pure rubbish, of course, but I assume it's better to
let tongues wag and inflate the tale to something ridiculous than to deny
anything."
"Mr. Potter would no doubt agree with you," the Headmistress said
pointedly. "Although, since I will be requiring your services in increasing
the security of the grounds, I should explain to you precisely what did
occur. James, you are free to wait a moment, aren't you? I shall not detain
the professor for long, and he will accompany you down to the corridor."
Without waiting for a reply, she turned back to Neville, launching into a
detailed account of the previous night.
James knew the whole story, of course, but still felt he was meant to
wait near the door, as far from earshot as possible. It was uncomfortable and
vaguely annoying. He felt rather proprietary about the intruder, having been
the first to see him, and having been the one to point him out on the
Quidditch pitch. It was just like adults to deny something a kid said, then,
when it proved true, to completely take over and dismiss the kid. He

realized that this was another part of why he hadn't yet told any adults about
his suspicions concerning the Slytherin-Merlin plot. He felt even stronger
now about keeping that his secret, at least until he could prove something
substantial.
James crossed his arms and hovered near the door, turning to look back
at Neville, who was seated in front of the Headmistress' desk, and
McGonagall, who was pacing slightly behind it as she spoke.
"What are you up to, Potter?" a low voice drawled behind James,
making him jump. He spun around wildly, eyes wide. The voice cut him off
before he could respond. "Don't ask who I am and don't waste my time with
a load of pointless lies. You know exactly who I am. And I know, even
more than your own father, that you are up to something."
It was, of course, the portrait of Severus Snape. The dark eyes probed
James coldly, the mouth turned down into a knowing sneer.
"I'm…," James began, and then stopped, feeling very strongly that if
he lied, the portrait would know. "I'm not going to tell."
"A more honest answer than any ever provided by your father, at
least," Snape drawled, keeping his voice low enough not to attract the
attention of McGonagall or Neville. "It's a pity I'm not still alive to be
headmaster or I'd find ways of getting the tale from you, one way… or
another."
"Well," James whispered, feeling a little braver now that shock had
worn off, "I guess it's a good thing you aren't headmaster anymore, then."
He thought it might be a bit too much to say it's a good thing you're dead.
James' dad had a load of respect for Severus Snape. He'd even made
Severus Albus' middle name.
"Don't try the smart tactic with me, Potter," the portrait said, but more
tiredly than angrily. "You, unlike your father, know well enough now that I
was as devoted to Albus Dumbledore and the downfall of Voldemort as was
he. Your father believed it was up to him to win battles entirely on his own.

He was foolish and destructive. Don't think I didn't see that very same look
in your eye not five minutes ago."
James couldn't think what to say. He just met the portrait's dark gaze
and frowned stubbornly.
Snape sighed theatrically. "Have it your way, then. Like Potter, like
son. Never learning the lessons of the past. But know this: I will be
watching you, as I did your father. If your unnamed suspicions are, against
all probability, accurate, be assured that I will be working toward the same
end as you. Try, Potter, not to make the same mistakes as your father. Try
not to leave others to pay the consequences for your arrogance."
That last stung James to the core. He assumed Snape would leave his
portrait frame after a salvo like that, confident of having had the last word,
but he didn't. He stayed, that same penetrating stare on his face, reading
James like a book. Still, there wasn't anything specifically malicious in that
gaze, despite the pointed words.
"Yeah," James finally found the voice to say. "Well, I'll keep that in
mind." It was a lame response and he knew it. He was only eleven, after all.
"James?" Neville said behind him. James turned and looked up at the
professor. "Sounds like you had an exciting night last night. I'm curious
about the vines that attacked you. Maybe you could tell me more about
them sometime, yes?"
"Sure," James said, his lips feeling numb. When he turned back
toward the door, following Neville out, the portrait of Snape was still
occupied. The eyes followed him darkly as he left the room.

9. The Debate Betrayal
As James became more familiar with the routine of school, time
seemed to slip past almost without his noticing. Zane continued to excel at
Quidditch, and James continued to feel an uncomfortable mix of emotions
about Zane's success. He still felt the stab of jealousy when he heard the
crowd cheer for one of Zane's well-hit Bludgers, but he couldn't help
smiling at how much the boy loved the sport, how he delighted in each
match, in the teamwork and camaraderie. Also, James was growing
increasingly confident of his own broom skills. He practiced with Zane on
the Quidditch pitch many evenings, asking Zane for tips on technique.
Zane, for his part, was always enthusiastic and supportive, telling James
that he'd definitely make the Gryffindor team next year.
"Then I'll have to stop practicing with you and giving you pointers,
you know," Zane said, flying next to James and calling over the roar of the

air. "It'd be like consorting with the enemy." As usual, James couldn't tell if
Zane was joking or not.
James enjoyed becoming more confident on the broom, but he was
surprised to discover that he loved football. Tina Curry had divided all of
her classes into teams and arranged a casual game schedule for them to play
against one another. Many students had grasped the essential concepts of
the game and being competitive at heart, had worked to make the class-time
matches interesting. Occasionally, a student would forget the non-magical
nature of the sport and would be seen frantically searching their pockets for
their wands or simply pointing at the ball and yelling something like "Accio
football!", resulting in a general breakdown of the match while everyone
laughed. Once, a Hufflepuff girl had simply grabbed the ball in both hands,
forgetting the basic rules of the game, and charged down the field as if she
were playing rugby. James discovered, rather reluctantly, that Professor
Curry's assessment of his skills had been fairly accurate. He was a natural.
He could control the ball easily with the tips of his trainers as he zigged and
zagged down the field. His ball-handling was regarded as among the best of
any of the new players, and his scoring rate was second only to fifth-year
Sabrina Hildegard, who, like Zane, was Muggle-born and unlike Zane, had
played on Muggle leagues when she was younger.
James and Ralph, however, barely talked. James' initial anger and
resentment had simmered down to a stubborn aloofness. Some small part of
him knew that he should forgive Ralph, and even apologize for yelling at
him that day in the Great Hall. He knew that if he'd kept his cool, Ralph
probably would have seen the error of siding with his Slytherin housemates.
Instead, Ralph seemed to feel it was his duty to support the Slytherins and
the Progressive Element as earnestly as he could. If it wasn't for the fact that
even Ralph's enthusiastic support was rather weak-willed and doleful,
James would have found it easier to stay angry at him. Ralph wore the blue
badges, and he attended the debate meetings in the library, but he did so
with such a dogged attitude of obligation that it seemed to do more harm
than good. If any of the Slytherins actually spoke to him, he'd jerk upright
and respond with manic eagerness, then deflate as soon as they turned their
attention elsewhere. It hurt James a little to watch it, but not enough to
make him change his attitude toward Ralph.

In his room at night or in a corner of the library, James would study the
poem he and Zane had seen on the gate to the Grotto Keep. With Zane's
help, he had written it down from memory and was confident it was
accurate. Still, he couldn't seem to make much of it. All he knew for sure
was that the first two lines referred to the fact that the Grotto Keep could
only be found by moonlight. The rest was a puzzle. He kept fetching up on
the line that read 'Did wake his languid sleep', wondering if that could refer
to Merlin. But Merlin wasn't asleep, was he?
"Makes it sound like he's Rip Van Winkle," Zane whispered one day in
the library. "Snoozing away a few hundred years out under a tree
somewhere." Zane had had to explain the fairy tale of Rip Van Winkle, and
James considered it. He knew from hearing his dad's conversations with
other Aurors that much of Muggle mythology came from long, distant
encounters with witches and wizards. Stories of wizarding lore made their
way into Muggle fairy tales, became stylized or altered, and grew into
legends and myth. Perhaps, James mused, this story of the long sleeper,
who awoke hundreds of years later, was a Muggle echo of the story of
Merlin. Still, it didn't get James or Zane any closer to figuring out how
Merlin could possibly return after so many centuries, nor did it offer any
clues as to who might be involved in such a conspiracy.
At night, as he was drifting to sleep, James often found his thoughts
returning, strangely enough, to his conversation with the portrait of Severus
Snape. Snape had said he'd be watching James, but James couldn't imagine
how that could be. There was only one portrait of Snape on the Hogwarts
grounds, as far as James knew, and it was up in the Headmistress' office.
How could Snape possibly be watching James? Snape had been a powerful
wizard, and a potions genius according to Dad and Mum, but how would
either of those things allow his portrait to see around the castle? Still, James
didn't doubt Snape. If Snape said he was watching him, James felt confident
that, somehow or other, it was true. It was only after two weeks of mulling
over the conversation he'd had with Snape that James realized what struck
him most about it. To Snape, unlike James and the rest of the wizarding
world, it was a foregone conclusion that James was just like his father.

"Like Potter, like son," he'd said, sneering. Ironically, though, to Snape, if
no one else, this was not precisely a good thing.
As the leaves in the Forbidden Forest began to settle into the browns
and yellows of autumn, the blue Progressive Element buttons were
augmented by the posters and banners for the first All-School Debate. As
Ralph had predicted, the theme was 'Re-evaluating the Assumptions of the
Past: Truth or Conspiracy'. As if the words themselves weren't enough, the
right side of each banner and poster bore a drawing of a lightning bolt that
was enchanted to shift into the shape of a question mark every few seconds.
Zane, who, according to Petra, was quite good at debate, told James that the
school debate committee had argued for quite some time about the topic of
the first event. Tabitha Corsica was not on the debate committee, but her
crony, Philia Goyle, was the committee chair.
"So in the end," Zane had reported to James, "the debate team turned
out to be a great example of democracy in action: they argued all night, then
she chose." He shrugged wearily.
The sight of the signs and banners, and especially, that very
unambiguous lightning bolt, made James' blood boil. Seeing Ralph on a
ladder finishing hanging one of the banners just outside the door to
Technomancy class was more than he could take.
"I'm surprised you can reach like that, Ralph," James said, anger
pushing the words out, "what with Tabitha Corsica's hand so far up your
backside."
Zane, who'd been walking next to James, sighed and ducked into the
classroom. Ralph hadn't noticed James until he spoke. He glanced down, his
expression surprised and wounded. "What's that supposed to mean?" he
demanded.
"It means, I'd think by now, you'd have gotten sick of being her little
first-year puppet." James already regretted saying anything. The guileless
misery on Ralph's face shamed him.

Ralph had the mantra down well, though. "Your people are the
puppetmasters, preying on the fears of the weak-minded to maintain the
demagoguery of prejudice and unfairness," he said, but without much
conviction. James rolled his eyes and walked into the classroom.
Professor Jackson was absent from his usual spot behind the teacher's
desk. James sat next to Zane in the front row. As he sat down, he made a
point of joking and laughing with a few other Gryffindors nearby, knowing
Ralph was watching through the doorway. The mean pleasure it gave him
was hollow and raw, but it was pleasure nonetheless.
Finally, the room hushed. James looked up and saw Professor Jackson
entering, carrying something under his arm. The object was large, flat, and
wrapped in cloth.
"Good morning, class," he said in his usual, brusque manner. "Your
last week's essays are graded and on my desk. Mr. Murdock, would you
mind distributing them, please? On the whole, I am not terribly
disappointed, although I think most of you can be relieved that Hogwarts
does not generally grade on the curve."
Jackson carefully set his parcel on the desk. As he unfolded the cloth
from around it, James could see that it was a stack of three rather small
paintings. He thought of the painting of Severus Snape and his attention
perked up.
"Today is a day for taking notes, I can assure you," Jackson said
ominously. He arranged the paintings in a row along the shelf of the
chalkboard. The first painting was of a thin man with owlish glasses and an
almost perfectly bald head. He blinked at the class, his expression alert and
slightly nervous, as if he expected someone, at any moment, to jump up and
shout "Boo!" at him. The next painting was empty but for a rather bland
wooded background. The last showed a fairly ghastly clown in white face
with a hideously large, red smile painted over its mouth. The clown leered
inanely at the class and shook a little cane with a ball on the end. The ball,

James noticed with a shudder, was a tiny version of the clown's own head,
grinning even more insanely.
Murdock finished handing back everyone's papers and slid back into
his own seat. James glanced down at his essay. On the front, in Jackson's
perfect, left-slanting cursive, were the words, Tepid, but borderline cogent.
Grammar needs work.
"As always, questions about your grades may be submitted to me in
writing. Further discussion will be obtained, as needed, during my office
hours, assuming any of you remember where my office is. And now,
onward and upward." Jackson paced slowly along the line of paintings,
gesturing vaguely at them. "As many of you will recall, in our first class,
we had a short discussion, spearheaded by Mr. Walker," he peered beneath
his bushy eyebrows in Zane's direction, "about the nature of magical art. I
explained that the artist's intentions are imbued on the canvas via a magical,
psycho-kinetic process, which allows the art to take on a semblance of
motion and attitude. The result is a drawing that moves and mimics life at
the whim of the artist. Today, we will examine a different kind of art, one
that represents life in a wholly different way."
Quills scratched feverishly as the class struggled to keep up with
Jackson's monologue. As usual, Jackson paced as he spoke.
"The art of magical painting comes in two forms. The first one is just
a more lavish version of what I illustrated in class, which is the creation of
purely fanciful imagery based on the imagination of the artist. This is
different from Muggle art only inasmuch as the magical versions may move
and emote, based on the intention--and only within the imaginative
boundaries--of the artist. Our friend, Mr. Biggles here, is an example."
Jackson gestured at the painting of the clown. "Mr. Biggles, thankfully,
never existed outside the imagination of the artist who painted him." The
clown responded to the attention, bobbing in its frame, waggling the fingers
of one white-gloved hand and waving the cane in the other. The tiny
clown's head on the end of the cane ran its tongue out and crossed its eyes.
Jackson glared at the thing for a moment, and then sighed as he began to
pace again.

"The second type of magical painting is much more precise. It depends
on advanced spellwork and potion-mixed paints to recreate a living
individual or creature. The technomancic name for this type of painting is
imago aetaspeculum, which means… can anyone tell me?"
Petra raised her hand and Jackson nodded at her. "It means, I think,
something like a living mirror image, sir?"
Jackson considered her answer. "Half credit, Miss Morganstern. Five
points to Gryffindor for effort. The most accurate definition of the term is 'a
magical painting that captures a living imprint of the individual it
represents, but confined within the aetas, or timeframe, of the subject's own
lifetime'. The result is a portrait that, while not containing the living essence
of the subject, mirrors every intellectual and emotional characteristic of that
subject. Thus, the portrait does not learn and evolve beyond the subject's
death, but retains exactly that subject's personality as strictly defined by his
or her lifetime. We have Mr. Cornelius Yarrow here as an example."
Jackson now indicated the thin, rather nervous man in the portrait.
Yarrow flinched slightly at Jackson's gesture. Mr. Biggles capered
frantically in his frame, jealous for attention.
"Mr. Yarrow, when did you die?" Jackson asked, passing the portrait
on his way around the room again.
The portrait's voice was as thin as the man in it, with a high, nasal
tone. "September twentieth, nineteen forty-nine. I was sixty-seven years and
three months old, rounding up, of course."
"And what--as if I needed to ask--was your occupation?"
"I was Hogwarts school bursar for thirty-two years," the portrait
answered with a sniff.
Jackson turned to look at the painting. "And what do you do now?"
The portrait blinked nervously. "Excuse me?"

"With all the time you now have on your hands, I mean. It's been a
long time since nineteen fortynine. What do you do with yourself, Mr.
Yarrow? Have you developed any hobbies?"
Yarrow seemed to chew his lips, obviously mystified and worried by
the question. "I… hobbies? No hobbies, as such. I… I always just liked
numbers. I tend to think about my work. That's what I always did when I
wasn't figuring the books. I thought about the budgets, the numbers, and
worked them out in my head."
Jackson maintained eye contact with the painting. "You still think
about the numbers? You spend your time working out the books for the
school budget as it stood in nineteen forty-nine?"
Yarrow's eyes darted back and forth over the class. He seemed to feel
he was being trapped somehow. "Er. Yes. Yes, I do. It's just what I do, you
understand. What I always did. I see no reason to stop. I'm the bursar, you
see. Well, was, of course. The bursar."
"Thank you very much, Mr. Yarrow. You've illustrated my point
precisely," said Jackson, resuming his circuit of the room.
"Always happy to be of service," Yarrow said a little stiffly.
Jackson addressed the class again. "Mr. Yarrow's portrait, as some of
you probably know, normally hangs in the corridor just outside the
Headmistress' office, along with many other former school staff members
and faculty. We have, however, come into possession of a second portrait of
Mr. Yarrow, one that normally hangs in his family's home. The second
portrait, as you may guess, is here in the center of our display. Mr. Yarrow,
if you please?" Jackson gestured at the empty portrait in the center.
Yarrow raised his eyebrows. "Hm? Oh. Yes, of course." He shifted,
stood, brushed some nonexistent flecks of lint off his natty robes, and then
stepped carefully out of the portrait frame. For a few seconds, both portraits
stood empty, then Yarrow appeared in the center portrait. He was wearing

slightly different clothes in this portrait, and when he sat, he was turned at
an angle, showing the prow of his nose in profile.
"Thank you again, Mr. Yarrow," Jackson said, leaning against his desk
and crossing his arms. "Although there are exceptions, typically, a portrait
only becomes active upon the death of the subject. Technomancy cannot
explain to us why this should be, except that it seems to respond to the law
of Conservation of Personalities. In other words, one Mr. Cornelius Yarrow
at any given moment is, cosmically speaking, sufficient." There was a
murmur of suppressed laughter. Yarrow frowned as Jackson continued.
"Another factor that comes into play once the subject is deceased is the
interactivity between portraits. If there is more than one portrait of an
individual, the portraits become connected, sharing a common subject. The
result is one mutual portrait that can maneuver at will between its frames.
For instance, Mr. Yarrow can visit us at Hogwarts, and then return to his
home portrait as he wishes."
James struggled to write all of Jackson's comments down, knowing the
professor was notorious for creating test questions out of the least detail of a
lecture. He was distracted from the task, however, by thoughts of the
portrait of Severus Snape. James risked raising his hand.
Jackson spied him and his eyebrows rose slightly. "A question, Mr. Potter?"
"Yes, sir. Can a portrait ever leave its own frames? Can it, maybe, go
over into a different painting?"
Jackson studied James for a moment, his eyebrows still raised.
"Excellent question, Mr. Potter. Let us find out, shall we? Mr. Yarrow, may
I beg your service once more?"
Yarrow was trying to maintain the pose of his second portrait, which
was studious and thoughtful, looking slightly away. His eyes slid to the
side, looking out at Jackson. "I suppose so. How else may I help?"
"Are you aware of the painting of the rather odious Mr. Biggles in the

frame next to you?"
Mr. Biggles responded to the mention of his name by feigning great
shock and shyness. He covered his mouth with one hand and batted his
eyes. The tiny clown's head on the end of the cane goggled and blew
raspberries. Yarrow sighed. "I am aware of that painting, yes."
"Would you be so kind as to step into his painting for just a moment,
sir?"
Yarrow turned to Jackson, his watery eyes magnified behind his
spectacles. "Even if that were possible, I don't believe I could bring myself
to join his company. I'm sorry."
Jackson nodded, closing his eyes respectfully. "Thank you, yes, I don't
blame you, Mr. Yarrow. No, we can see, therefore, that while a much
stronger magic is required to create the imago aetaspeculum, it isn't
designed to allow the portrait to enter a painting of a purely imaginary
subject. It would be, in a sense, like trying to force yourself through a
drawing of a door. On the other hand, Mr. Biggles?" The clown jumped up
ecstatically at the mention of its name again, then looked at Jackson with a
caricature of intense attention. Jackson spread an arm toward the middle
frame. "Please join Mr. Yarrow in his portrait, won't you?"
Cornelius Yarrow looked shocked, then horrified, as the clown leaped
out of its own painting and into his. Mr. Biggles landed behind Yarrow's
chair, grabbing it and nearly rocking Yarrow out of it. Yarrow spluttered as
Biggles leered forward, his head over Yarrow's left shoulder, the miniature
clown's head cane over his right, blowing raspberries into the man's ear.
"Professor Jackson!" Yarrow exclaimed, his voice rising an octave and
trembling on the verge of inaudibility. "I insist you remove this… this
fevered imagining from my portrait at once!"
The class erupted into gales of laughter as the clown leaped over
Yarrow's shoulder and landed on his lap, throwing both arms around the
man's skinny neck. The clown's head cane kissed Yarrow repeatedly on the

nose. "Mr. Biggles," Jackson said loudly, "that's enough. Please return to
your own painting."
The clown seemed disinclined to obey. He threw himself off Yarrow's
lap and hid elaborately behind the man's chair. Biggles' eyes peeped over
Yarrow's right shoulder, the miniature head peeped over his left. Yarrow
turned and swatted at the clown prissily, as if it were a spider he was loath
to touch but anxious to kill. Jackson produced his wand--a twelve-inch
length of hickory--from his sleeve and pointed it carefully at the clown's
empty frame. "Shall I alter your environment while you are away, Mr.
Biggles? You'll need to return to it eventually. Would you prefer to find it
stocked with a few more Japanese Thorn Thickets?"
The clown frowned petulantly under its make-up and stood. Sulking,
it clambered out of Yarrow's portrait and back into its own frame.
"A simple rule of thumb," Jackson said, watching the clown give him a
very enthusiastic nasty look. "A one-dimensional personality can merge
into a two-dimensional personality's environment, but not the other way
around. Portraits are confined to their own frames, while imaginary subjects
can move freely into and through any other painting in their general
vicinity. Does that answer your question, Mr. Potter?"
"Yes, sir," James answered, then rushed on. "One more thing, though.
Can a portrait ever appear in more than one of its frames at once?"
Jackson smiled at James while simultaneously furrowing his brow.
"Your inquisitiveness on the subject knows no bounds, it seems, Mr. Potter.
As a matter of fact, that is possible, although it is a rarity. For great wizards,
whose portraits have been duplicated many times, there has been known to
be some division of the personality, allowing the subject to appear in
multiple frames at once. Such is the case with your Albus Dumbledore, as
you might guess. This phenomenon is very difficult to measure and, of
course, depends entirely on the skill of the witch or wizard whose likeness
appears in the portrait. Is that all, Mr. Potter?"
"Professor Jackson, sir?" a different voice asked. James turned to see

Philia Goyle near the back, her hand raised.
"Yes, Miss Goyle," Jackson said, sighing.
"If I understand correctly, the portrait knows everything that the
subject knew, yes?"
"I believe that is apparent, Miss Goyle. The painting reflects the
personality, knowledge, and experiences of the subject. No more and no
less."
"Does a portrait, then, make its subject immortal?" Philia asked. Her
face, as always, was stoic and impassive.
"I am afraid you are confusing what appears to be with what is, Miss
Goyle," Jackson said, eyeing Philia closely, "and that is a dreadful mistake
for a witch to make. Much of magic, and much of life in general, I might
add, is concerned primarily with illusion. The ability to separate illusion
from reality is one of the fundamental basics of technomancy. No, a portrait
is merely a representation of the once-living subject, no more alive than
your own shadow where it falls on the ground. It can in no way be thought
to prolong the life of the deceased subject. Despite all appearances, a
wizard portrait is still merely paint on canvas."
As Jackson finished speaking, he turned toward the painting of Mr.
Biggles. With one swift movement, he pointed his wand at the painting, not
even quite looking at it. A jet of clear, yellowish liquid spurted from the end
of the wand and splashed on the canvas. Instantly, it dissolved the paint. Mr.
Biggles stopped moving as his image blurred, then ran freely down the
canvas. The unmistakable smell of turpentine filled the room. The class was
deadly quiet.
Professor Jackson walked slowly behind his desk. "I fancied myself a
bit of an artist when I was younger," he said, studying the end of his wand
as he turned. "Mr. Biggles, horrid as he was, was one of my better works.
You may freely guess what kind of life circumstances could lead to my
creating such a thing, as I myself have forgotten. I thought Mr. Biggles was

long forgotten as well, until I found him in the bottom of a trunk while
packing for my journey. I thought," he said, glancing over at the streaky
mess that ran out of the frame and dripped to the floor, "that this would be a
fitting end for him."
Jackson sat down at his desk, carefully laying his wand on the blotter
in front of him. "And now, class, what technomancic truth can we derive
from what I've just illustrated?"
No one moved. Then a hand raised slowly.
Jackson inclined his head. "Mr. Murdock?"
Murdock cleared his throat. "Don't try to be an artist if you're supposed
to be a Technomancy teacher, sir?"
"That wasn't quite what I had in mind, Mr. Murdock, but that is
inarguably true as well. No, the truth I was illustrating is that, while a
wizard painting, portrait or otherwise, is indeed still merely paint on
canvas," Jackson's gaze searched the class, then settled on James, "only the
original artist can destroy his painting. No one or nothing else. The canvas
can be slashed, the frame destroyed, the bindings cut, but the painting will
endure. It will continue to represent its subject, no matter what happens to
it, even in a hundred pieces. Only the original artist can destroy that
connection, and once he does, it is destroyed forever."
As the class was dismissed, James couldn't help slowing as he passed
the destroyed painting of Mr. Biggles. The clown's face was nothing more
than a muddy grey blur in the center of the canvas. Squiggly streaks of paint
ran over the bottom edge of the frame, puddled in the chalk tray, and
dripped onto the floor, making a drab spatter of white and bloody red.
James shuddered, and then walked on. He thought he'd never look at
another wizard painting the same way again. As he made his way to his
next class, he passed a painting of several wizards gathered around a
gigantic globe. Ironically, James noticed that one of the wizards, a severe
man with a black mustache and glasses, was watching him closely. James
stopped and leaned in. The wizard's stare became stonier, his eyes piercing.

"You've got nothing to worry about," James said quietly. "I don't even
know how to draw. Art is Zane's department."
The painted wizard grimaced at him, annoyed, as if James had
entirely missed the point. He made a harrumphing noise and pointed in the
direction James had been walking, as if to say move along, nothing to see
here.
James resumed his walk to Charms class, musing idly about the wizard
in the painting. He'd looked familiar, but James couldn't quite place him. By
the time he entered Professor Flitwick's classroom, James had already
forgotten the little painted wizard and his piercing stare.

The day of the much ballyhooed first school debate came and James
was surprised at how many people were planning to attend. He had assumed
debates were typically stodgy little affairs attended only by the teams
themselves, some teachers, and a handful of the more academically-minded
students. By lunch that Friday, though, the debate had generated the sort of
boisterous tension that accompanied certain Quidditch matches. The one
thing that seemed to be missing, however, was the joking taunts between
the supporters. Thanks to the carefully worded banners and signs
advertising the debate, the student population had been rather evenly
divided between two worldviews that, it seemed, were not compatible on
any level. The result was a sullen tension that filled the silences where jests
and competitive taunts might otherwise have been. James had not been
seriously considering attending the debate. Now, though, he realized that
the outcome of the event would very likely affect the entire culture of
Hogwarts. For that reason, he felt an obligation to go, as well as a growing
curiosity. Besides, if Zane was going to be arguing in front of a large
portion of the school populace, partly in defense of Harry Potter, James
knew it'd be important that he be there to show his support.

After dinner, James joined Ted and the rest of the Gremlins as they
made their way to the event, along with much of the rest of the student
populace.
The debate was held in the Amphitheater, where the occasional play
and concert were usually performed. James had never been in the
Amphitheater before. The open-air seating area, carved out of the hillside
behind the east tower, descended in steep terraces down to a large stage. As
James made his way through the crowded arch that opened onto the top tier
of seating, he saw that the stage below was nearly empty. A high-backed,
official-looking chair sat in the center rear of the stage, flanked by two
podiums and two long tables, with chairs arranged along their backs.
Professor Flitwick was on stage, guiding a phosphorous globe into the air
with his wand, placing it among several others that lit the stage at strategic
locations. The orchestra pit had been covered over with a great wooden
platform, and then arranged with a library table and six chairs. Zane had
explained that the judges would sit there. The noise of the crowd of students
was a hushed babble, nearly lost in the normal evening noises emanating
from the dim hills and the nearby forest. Ted, Sabrina, and Damien led the
way into a row halfway up the middle section, joining a group of other
Gryffindors. Noah was already there. He waved at James as they found their
seats.
"Gremlin salute," Noah said, performing, with a straight face, a
complicated series of hand gestures that involved a traditional hand to the
forehead salute, a raised fist, a waggle of both elbows that looked a bit like
a chicken dance, and ended with both hands framing the sides of his face,
pinky and thumbs extended, apparently mimicking Gremlin ears.
Ted nodded, responding with only the Gremlin-ear gesture, which was
apparently the countersign. "Have our friends from triple W come through
for us?"
Noah nodded. "We ran a small test this afternoon under controlled
circumstances. Looks even better than we hoped. And," he added, grinning,

"they provided their services free of charge. George sent a note with the
package, asking only that we tell him exactly how it turns out."
Ted smiled rather humorlessly. "We'll give him a full report either
way."
James nudged Ted. "What's going on?"
"James, my boy," Ted said, scanning the crowd, "do you know what
the term 'plausible deniability' means?"
James shook his head. "No."
"Ask your buddy, Zane. It was invented by the Americans. Let's just
say, sometimes, it's best not to know anything until after the fact."
James shrugged, figuring he was sitting close enough to the action to
know, probably before anyone else, what the Gremlins were up to.
Someone nearby had a small wireless tuned to the Wizarding Wireless
Network. The tiny voice on the speaker burbled away, forming part of the
background noise, until James heard the phrase 'crowded Amphitheater'. He
swept his gaze over the groups clustered near the stage, and then saw what
he was looking for. A tall man wearing a purple bowler hat was speaking
into the tip of his wand. The cadence of his speech blew small, smoky puffs
off the end of his wand, the puffs forming the shapes of words as they
floated through the air. On a small table near the man was a machine that
looked somewhat like an old-fashioned record player with a huge funnel.
The wispy word-shapes were sucked into the funnel as fast as they flowed
off the man's wand. James had never seen a magical broadcast in action. He
read the words the wizard was speaking a second before they were
broadcast to the nearby wireless.
"The curious and the contentious alike seem to have gathered in
droves for tonight's contest," the announcer said, "illustrating the ongoing
debate all around the wizarding world these days, as doubts about Ministry
policy and Auror practices meet questions regarding recent magical history.
Tonight, via this special broadcast of Current Wizard's Newswatch, we will

see what one of the country's foremost centers of magical learning thinks of
this divisive issue. I'm your host, Myron Madrigal, speaking on behalf of
tonight's sponsor, Wymnot's Wand Polish and Enchant-Enhancer: better
spells come from a Wymnot wand. We'll be right back for opening
comments after this important message."
The announcer twirled a finger at an assistance, who plugged the
funnel with a large plunger, then spindled a record into the device. A
commercial for Wymnot Wand Polish began to play on the nearby wireless.
James had been concerned about the debate being broadcast to the
wizarding world at large, but then decided it was better than having it
parsed and reported in bits by someone like Rita Skeeter. At least this way,
all the arguments would be heard in their entirety. He could only hope that
Zane, Petra, and their team would argue well against Tabitha Corsica and
her carefully woven agenda of doubts and half-truths.
Just as the commercial on the nearby wireless ended, Benjamin
Franklyn approached the left side podium on stage. On the wireless, the
announcer's voice spoke in a hushed tone, "In a daring turn of events, the
chancellor of the American wizarding school, Alma Aleron, Benjamin
Amadeus Franklyn has been asked to officiate tonight's debate. He
approaches the podium."
"Good evening, friends, students, guests," Franklyn said, forgoing his
wand and raising his clear, tenor voice. "Welcome to this, Hogwarts'
inaugural All-School Debate. My name is Benjamin Franklyn, and I am
honored to have been chosen to introduce tonight's teams. Without further
delay, will Teams A and B take their places on the stage?"
A group of ten people stood from the front row. The group split, half
ascending the stage on the right side and half on the left. They filed into the
chairs behind the two tables as Franklyn introduced them. Team A consisted
of Zane, Petra, Gennifer Tellus, a Hufflepuff named Andrew Haubert, and
an Alma Aleron student named Gerald Jones. Team B was, not surprisingly,
mostly fifth- to seventh-year Slytherins, including Tabitha Corsica, her
crony, Tom Squallus, and two others, Heather Flack and Nolan Beetlebrick.
The fifth person at the table, and the only one younger than fifteen, was

Ralph. He sat in his chair as rigid as a statue, staring at Franklyn as if he
was hypnotized.
"Tonight's debate," Franklyn continued, adjusting his square
spectacles, "as can be assumed by the turnout and the press coverage, deals
with subjects both weighty and far-reaching. It has been said that dissent is
the greatest expression of freedom, and that debate and discourse are the
fuel for a right-thinking populace to maintain a fair government. These are
the axioms that define us, and tonight, we will see them in action. Let us all
assume an attitude of respect and reason, regardless of our own opinions, so
that what flows tonight does so in a manner befitting this school and all
who have passed through its halls. No matter the outcome," Franklyn turned
at this point, acknowledging the two debate teams seated on either side, "let
us leave here as we entered: friends, classmates, and fellow witches and
wizards."
There was a round of applause which, James thought, sounded rather
more perfunctory than appreciative. Franklyn produced a paper from his
robes and examined it.
"As was determined earlier this evening by lots," he called out in an
official voice, "Team B is first to offer opening statements. Miss Tabitha
Corsica, I believe, will represent. Miss Corsica."
Franklyn backed away from the podium, taking a seat in the highbacked chair at the rear center of the stage. Tabitha approached the left
podium, her hands empty. She smiled her wonderful smile at the crowd,
seeming to take every person in one by one. "Friends and classmates,
teachers and members of the press, may I be so bold as to begin by pointing
out that the remarks of our esteemed Professor Franklyn, in fact, represent
the very heart of the error that underlies our discussion tonight?"
The crowd reacted with something like a mutual gasp or sigh of
anticipation. Tabitha took the moment to turn and smile at Benjamin
Franklyn. "With apologies and respect, Professor." Franklyn seemed
entirely unperturbed. He raised a hand to her, palm up, and nodded. Do tell,
the gesture seemed to say.

"Of course, decorum and respect must rule the day during a discourse
like this," Tabitha said, returning her attention to the audience. "In that
respect, we couldn't agree more with the professor. No, the error lies in
Professor Franklyn's last sentence. He encourages us, most of all, to
remember that we are all, in the end, fellow witches and wizards. Friends, is
this the essential basis of our identity? If so, then I contend that we are the
worst of tyrants, the lowest form of bigot. For are we not, beneath the
wands and the spells, more human than witch or wizard? To allow ourselves
to be primarily defined by our magic is to deny the humanity we share in
common with the non-magical world. Worse, it relegates, by omission, the
rest of humanity to a status both lower and less important than our own.
Now, I do not ascribe these prejudices to Professor Franklyn in particular.
These prejudices are as ingrained into the methods and manners of current
wizarding policy as magic is ingrained into a broomstick. It is not the innate
belief of the magical world that Muggle humanity is inferior to our own, but
it is the unfortunate and inevitable result of current Ministry policies.
"Our argument tonight is that the assumptions of the current ruling
class have led to this prejudice. Those assumptions are threefold. The first
is that the Law of Secrecy is a necessary safeguard against a Muggle world
supposedly incapable of dealing with our existence. While possibly
necessary in a past age, we maintain that the Law of Secrecy is now
obsolete, resulting only in a segregated society that unfairly denies both the
wizarding and the Muggle worlds the benefits of each other.
"The second assumption is that history proves the idea that magicalMuggle congress can only result in war. We will argue that this claim has
been vastly orchestrated out of a series of isolated and unconnected
historical incidents that, on their own, were unfortunate, but relatively
unimportant. The specter of the allpowerful evil wizard seeking world rule
has been placed alongside the prejudice of the weak-minded Muggle world,
incapable of accepting the existence of magical society. Both of these
threats, we assert, have been cultivated by the magical ruling class to
maintain a culture of fear, thus cementing their own agenda of power and
control.

"And the final assumption we wish to question is the existence of socalled 'dark' magic. We will argue that 'dark' magic is simply a form of
complex, if occasionally dangerous, magic, only considered evil because it
was mostly used by those who at one time opposed the current magical
ruling class. 'Dark' magic is, in short, an invention of the Auror Department,
used to justify the squashing of any individual or group that the ruling class
feels threatened by.
"We assert that these three assumptions form the basis of the policies
of prejudice against the Muggle world. Our goal is equality, and nothing
less, for Muggles, as well as ourselves. After all, before we are witch or
wizard, Muggle or magical, we are first and foremost… human."
With that, Tabitha turned and walked back to her seat at the Team B
table. There was a moment of rather awed silence, then, to James dismay,
the crowd erupted in applause. James looked around. Not everyone was
applauding, but those that were, roughly half, did so with a grim vigor.
"…outpouring of support from the assembled students," the voice on
the wireless could just be heard to say, "as Miss Corsica, the picture of
composure and assurance, takes her seat. Miss Petra Morganstern, captain
of Team A, now approaches the lectern…"
Petra arranged a small stack of note cards on the podium as the cheers
died away. She looked up, unsmiling.
"Ladies and gentlemen, fellow classmates, greetings," she said, her
voice crisp and ringing. "The members of Team B claim that there are three
points to their argument, their 'three assumptions'. Team A will argue that
there is, in actuality, only one 'assumption' that is valid for debate tonight,
their other two arguments being completely dependent upon it. That
'assumption' is the notion that history, as a science and as a study, is not
reliable. Team B must convince us that history, rather than being
trustworthy, is a complete fabrication, woven by the whims and deliberate
manipulations of a small group of incredibly powerful ruling witches and
wizards. These ruling individuals must be powerful indeed, because the
history they have allegedly invented is, in fact, still in the memory of many

of those still living today. Our parents and grandparents, our teachers, and
yes, our leaders. They were there when this supposedly fabricated history
took place, much of it right here on these very grounds. Using the logic of
Team B, the Battle of Hogwarts either never occurred or occurred so
differently as to be completely meaningless. If this is so, then we may well
argue their other 'assumptions', such as the assertion that there is no
necessity for the Law of Secrecy and that dark magic is an invention of the
Auror Department. If, however, the historical record of the rise of the Dark
Lord and his bloody quest for power and dominion over the Muggle world
can be shown to be accurate, the rest of Team B's claims fall as well. Thus,
we will spend our energies on that argument only, with apologies to Team
B."
There was another moment of charged silence, precipitated by the
mention of the Dark Lord, then another burst of applause, equal in volume
to the previous, but scattered with exuberant whoops and whistles.
"A short but pithy opening statement by Miss Morganstern," the
announcer's voice said. James saw the man in the purple bowler and read
his words as they flowed from his wand to the broadcasting funnel.
"Apparently crafted on the spot as a response to Miss Corsica's threefold
outline. This promises to be a direct and spirited dialogue, ladies and
gentlemen."
For the next forty minutes, members of each team took to the
podiums, offering argument and counterargument, all timed and officiated
by Professor Franklyn. The audience had been instructed to refrain from
applause, but this had proven impossible to prevent. Once one round of
applause had been sounded for a team's argument, it seemed incumbent
upon supporters of the opposing viewpoint to cheer their own side as well.
Night descended on the Amphitheater, ominously dark, with only a thin
sickle moon low on the horizon. Enchanted lanterns floated over the stairs
and archways, leaving the seating areas in shadow. The stage glowed in the
center, lit like noonday in the glow of Professor Flitwick's gently floating
phosphorous globes. Zane faced off against Heather Flack, debating the
assertion that recorded histories were always manufactured by the victors.

"I'm from the United States, you know," Zane said, addressing Heather
Flack across the stage. "If your statement is true, it's a remarkable thing that
I've ever learned anything about my country's occasionally terrible past,
from our treatment of Native Americans, to the Salem witch-hunts, to the
one-time institution of slavery. If the victors fabricate our histories, how is
it that I know that even Thomas Jefferson once owned slaves?"
Benjamin Franklyn winced at that, then nodded slowly, approvingly.
The supporters of Team A applauded uproariously.
Finally, with no clear outcome, the captains of both teams approached
the podiums for final arguments. Tabitha Corsica still had first option.
"I appreciate," she began, glancing at Petra, "that my opponent in this
debate has made it a point to restrict discussion to this one central tenet: that
the recent history of the wizarding world has been enhanced and stylized to
instill terror of some fabled, monstrous enemy. To be specific, they have
continuously raised the image of 'the Dark Lord', as they prefer to call him.
If Miss Morganstern wishes to evade the other valid facets of tonight's
discussion, I will concur. If, that is, she is willing to debate the details of the
one figure around whom all the other details revolve. Let us discuss the
treatment of Lord Tom Riddle."
A distinct gasp of surprise and awe washed over the crowd at the
mention of Voldemort's name. Even for Tabitha Corsica, James thought,
bringing up Tom Riddle seemed like a terrible risk, even if he was, in fact,
the heart of the issue. James sat forward in his seat, his heart pounding.
"'The Dark Lord', as the Auror Department likes to call Tom Riddle,"
Tabitha said into the hushed darkness, "was indeed a powerful wizard, and
perhaps even a misguided one. Overzealous, he may have been. But what,
really, do we know for sure about his plans and his methods? Miss
Morganstern will simply tell you he was evil. He was a 'dark' wizard, she
will say, intent only on power and death. But really, do such people even
exist? In comic books, perhaps. And in the minds of those who breed fear.
But is anyone, in reality, utterly and irredeemably evil? No, I suggest that
perhaps Tom Riddle was a misguided but wellmeaning wizard whose desire

for Muggle-wizard equality was simply too radical a notion for the magical
ruling class to allow. The powers-that-be put together a very careful
campaign of half-truths and outright lies, all designed to discredit Riddle's
ideas and demonize his followers, whom the Ministry-controlled media
dubbed 'Death Eaters'. Despite this, Riddle's reformers were eventually able
to win enough confidence to assume control of the Ministry of Magic for a
short time. Only after a vicious and bloody coup were the old powers able
to defeat Riddle and his reformers, killing Tom Riddle in the process and
defaming what he stood for as mercilessly as they could."
As Tabitha spoke, a grumbling spread around the assembled crowd.
The grumbling grew into isolated shouts of outrage, then calls of "Let her
speak!" Finally, just as she finished, the crowd erupted into an agitated
frenzy that James found frightening. He glanced around. Many students had
stood and were shouting through cupped hands. Several had climbed onto
their seats, stomping or shaking fists. James couldn't tell who, among the
crowd, was shouting for or against Tabitha.
At the height of the disturbance, James had a vague sense of Ted Lupin
and Noah Metzker huddling around something. Suddenly, there was a burst
of blinding light between them, throwing them into stark silhouette. The
light shot upwards, filling the Amphitheater with its glow. At about a
hundred feet, the ball of light exploded into a million tiny lights. The crowd
hushed, bewildered, every eye tilted up. The tiny lights swam together,
forming shapes. There was a collective gasp as the lights formed the huge
shape of the legendary Dark Mark: a skull with a snake squirming out of the
mouth. Then, almost instantly, the shape was overwhelmed by a stylized
lightning bolt shape. The lightning bolt seemed to strike the skull, which bit
the snake in half. The front half of the snake rolled over dead, its eyes
turning to little crosses, and then the skull broke in half. The lightning bolt
vanished as a sign popped up out of the broken skull:
You'll laugh your skull off
at Weasley's Wizard Wheezes!
Diagon Alley and Hogsmeade Locations!
Custom Orders our Specialty!
There was a long, silent moment of complete bewilderment as

everyone stared up at the glittering letters. Then the letters broke apart and
fell, showering prettily into the Amphitheater. There was a titter of laughter
somewhere.
"Well," Professor Franklyn said, having stood and moved center stage,
"that was, I must admit, a well-timed, if somewhat puzzling, diversion."
There was some scattered, embarrassed laughter. Slowly, people began to
resume their seats. James turned toward Ted and Noah, who were squinting
and looking dazed, blinded by the Weasley Brothers' special-order
fireworks.
"Bloody Weasleys made a public service announcement out of it," Ted
muttered.
Noah shrugged. "Guess that's why it was free of charge."
"Ladies and gentlemen," Franklyn continued, "this is indeed a subject
of much passion for many of us, but we must not allow ourselves to become
carried away. Miss Corsica has made some assertions that are, to many of
us, very difficult to hear. However, this is a debate, and where I come from,
we do not," he said with great emphasis, "squash debate simply because an
argument makes us uncomfortable. I hope we can complete this discussion
with dignity, otherwise, I am sure the Headmistress will agree with me that
postponing final arguments will be the only recourse. Miss Morganstern, I
believe you had the floor."
Franklyn sat back down, and James sensed that he was far angrier than
he was letting on. Petra stood behind her podium for several seconds, eyes
down. Finally, she looked up, obviously shaken.
"I admit I don't know quite where to begin in responding to Miss
Corsica's frankly incredible hypothesis. The Dark Lord was not merely evil
because it was convenient for those in power to call him so. He used
unspeakable methods to gain and maintain power. He was known for freely
using, and for instructing his followers to use, all three Unforgivable
Curses. Lord Voldemort was no more interested in Muggle equality than…
than…" She stopped, fumbling. James pressed his lips together furiously.

He felt for her. There were so many lies to address. Any that slipped past
would be touted as truths she was reluctant to admit.
"Miss Morganstern," Tabitha said, her voice beseeching, "do you have
any basis for these claims, or are you simply repeating the things you've
been told?"
Petra looked over at Tabitha, her face pale and furious. "Only the
totality of recorded history, and the living memories of those who
experienced it firsthand," she spat. "It is incumbent on you, I suggest, to
provide proof for your claims that Lord Voldemort was anything other than
what all of accepted record tells us he was."
"Since you mention that," Tabitha said smoothly, "I believe that there
are individuals here this evening who were firsthand witnesses to the Battle
of Hogwarts. We could settle accounts right now, if we desired, by
interviewing them in person. This is not a courtroom, though, so I will
merely ask the following: Can anyone in attendance, anyone who was there
at the Battle, deny that Lord Tom Riddle himself stated for all to hear that
he deplored the loss of any blood in battle? Can anyone deny that he
pleaded with his enemies to meet with their leader personally, so that
violence could be avoided?"
Tabitha peered out over the audience. There was perfect silence but for
the distant drone of the crickets and the creak of wind in the trees of the
Forbidden Forest.
"No, none deny it because it is the truth," she said, almost kindly.
"Many died, of course. But it is a matter of fact that many more died than
Lord Tom Riddle desired. All because those who opposed him could not
bear for him to be known as anything other than a murderous madman."
Petra had regained her composure. She spoke now, clearly and
strongly. "And is it the act of a peace-loving reformer to seek out and
personally murder the family of an infant, then attempt to murder the infant
as well?"

"You speak of Harry Potter, then?" Tabitha said, not missing a beat.
"The man who, ironically, happens to be the Head of the Auror
Department?"
"You deny it is true, then?"
"I deny nothing. I simply question and challenge. I suggest only that
the truth is a far more complex thing than we have been allowed to believe.
I submit that allegations of cold-blooded murder and attacks on children, all
of which are rather conveniently unprovable, factor very well into the
doctrine of fear that has ruled us these past twenty years."
"How dare you?" James heard his own voice before he realized he'd
meant to speak. He was standing, pointing at Tabitha Corsica, trembling
with rage. "How dare you call my dad a liar? That monster killed his
parents! My grandparents are dead because of him, and you stand there and
tell us that it's some sort of made-up story! How dare you?" His voice
cracked.
"I'm sorry," Tabitha said, and her face was, indeed, a portrait of
compassion. "I know you believe that is true, James."
Professor Franklyn had stood and was moving forward, but James
shouted again before Franklyn could speak.
"My dad killed your great hero!" he called, his eyes blurring with tears
of rage. "That monster tried to kill my dad twice, the second time because
my dad gave himself to him. Your great savior was a monster, and my dad
finally defeated him!"
"Your father," Tabitha said, her voice rising and becoming stern, "was
a half-rate wizard with a good PR department. If it wasn't for the fact that
he'd been surrounded by greater wizards than himself at every turn, we
wouldn't even know his name today."
At that, the crowd exploded again, angry outbursts and shouts filling

the space like a cauldron. There was a clatter onstage. James looked and
saw that Ralph, who'd never even spoken, had jumped up, knocking over
his chair. Tabitha turned and looked at him, and he met her eyes for a
second. Sit down, she mouthed at him, her eyes livid. Ralph returned her
glare, then turned resolutely and left the stage. James saw it, and even in the
midst of his anguish and fear at the nearly rioting crowd, his heart rejoiced.
There was no point in continuing the debate any further. Headmistress
McGonagall joined Professor Franklyn on the stage and both shot red flares
from their wands, restoring order to the Amphitheater. With no preamble,
the Headmistress instructed all the students to return immediately to their
common rooms. Her face was stern and very pale. As the crowd muttered
and grumbled, funneling through the arched entryway back into the castle
proper, James saw Ralph working toward him through the crowd. He
moved aside until the larger boy caught up.
"I can't do it anymore," Ralph said to James, his voice low and his eyes
downcast. "I'm sorry she said those terrible, stupid things. You can keep
hating me if you want, but I just can't keep up with all this Progressive
Element rubbish. I don't know anything about it, really, except that it's just
too much work to be so… so political."
James couldn't help grinning. "Ralph, you're a brick. I don't hate you. I
should apologize to you."
"Well, let's apologize later, OK?" Ralph said, working his way toward
the archway with James following in his wake. "Right now, I just want to
get out of here. Tabitha Corsica has been staring holes into me ever since I
left the stage. Besides, Zane says that Ted's invited us to hang out in your
common room. He wants to gloat over having won over a member of Team
B."
"That won't bother you?" James asked.
"Nah," Ralph replied, shrugging, "it's worth it. Gryffindors have better
snacks."

10. Holiday at Grimmauld Place
The next Monday, James, Zane, and Ralph stood outside the door of
Headmistress McGonagall's Advanced Transfiguration class until the last of
her students left and she was gathering her things.
"Come in, come in," she called to the three boys without looking up.
"Stop lurking outside the door like vultures. How may I help you?"
"Madam Headmistress," James began tentatively, "we want to talk to
you about the debate."
"Do you, now?" she asked, glancing up at James for a moment, then
shouldering her bag. "Why, I cannot begin to imagine. The sooner we can
all forget that fiasco, the better."

The boys scrambled to follow the Headmistress as she strode toward
the door. "But nobody is forgetting it, Madam," James said quickly. "It was
all anybody talked about the whole weekend. People are getting really
stirred up about it. There was almost a fight out in the courtyard yesterday,
when Mustrum Jewel heard Reavis McMillan call Tabitha Corsica a lying
twit. If Professor Longbottom hadn't been nearby, Mustrum probably
would've killed Reavis."
"This is a school, Mr. Potter, and a school is, in its simplest form, a
place where young people gather. Young people are occasionally prone to
have spats. This is why, among other reasons, Hogwarts employs Mr.
Filch."
"It wasn't a spat, Madam," Ralph said, following the Headmistress out
into the corridor. "They were really mad. Daft mad, if you know what I
mean. People are coming unglued about this whole business."
"Then, like Mr. Potter says, it is fortunate Professor Longbottom was
nearby. I fail to see, precisely, why this is your problem."
Zane trotted to keep up with the Headmistress' stride. "Well, the thing
is, ma'am, we're just wondering why you're letting it all go on? I mean, you
were there when the Battle took place. You know what this Voldemort guy
was like. You could just tell everyone how it was and put Tabitha in her
place, neat as you please."
McGonagall stopped suddenly, leaving the boys to scramble to a halt
near her. "What, may I ask, would you three wish me to do?" she said,
dropping her voice and looking at each one intently. "The truth about the
Dark Lord and his followers has been common knowledge for thirty years,
ever since he murdered your grandparents, Mr. Potter. Do you suppose that
my repeating it one more time will dispel all the revisionist rabble-rousing
that has been going on, not only at this school, but throughout the wizarding
world? Hmm?" Her eyes were like diamond chips as she glared at them.
James realized that she was, if anything, even more agitated about the
debate than they were. "And suppose I summon Miss Corsica to my office

and forbid her from disseminating these lies and distortions. Do you expect
that this 'Progressive Element' of theirs will simply give up? How long do
you suppose it would be before we'd be reading an article in the Daily
Prophet about how the administration of Hogwarts is working with the
Auror Department to stifle the 'free exchange of ideas on school grounds'?"
James was stunned. He had assumed that the Headmistress was
indulging Tabitha Corsica for some reason, allowing, for a time, her charade
to continue. It simply hadn't occurred to him that McGonagall might not, in
fact, be capable of addressing the matter without making it worse.
"So what do we do, ma'am?" James asked.
"We?" McGonagall said, raising her eyebrows. "My dear James, I
admit that you amaze and impress me. Despite what you may believe, the
future of the wizarding world does not, in fact, rest upon you and your two
friends' shoulders." She saw the annoyed grimace on his face, and then she
showed him one of her rare smiles. She bent a bit to speak more
conspiratorially, addressing all three boys. "The revived memory of the
Dark Lord is not an overlarge concern to those of us who once faced the
living thing. This is a whim in the mind of a fickle populace, and irritating
as it may be, it will pass. In the meantime, what you three can do is attend
your classes, do your homework, and continue to be the sharp-witted and
strong-hearted boys you obviously are. And if anyone around you tries to
say Tom Riddle was a better man than Harry Potter, you have my
permission--my instruction, even--to transfigure their pumpkin juice into
nurgle water." She eyed the three boys seriously, one by one. "Just tell them
I prescribed you to practice that particular spell. Understood?"
Zane and Ralph grinned at each other. James sighed. McGonagall
nodded curtly, straightened herself, and continued briskly on her way. After
five steps, she turned back.
"Oh, and boys?"
"Yes, ma'am?" Zane said.

"Two sharp flicks and the word 'nurglammonias'. Emphasis on the first
and third syllables."
"Yes, ma'am!" Zane replied again, grinning.
The school year descended through autumn, approaching the winter
holidays. The football field became carpeted with leaves, crunching and
kicking up under the feet of Professor Curry's Muggle Studies teams. The
unofficial football tournament ended with James' team winning. James
himself scored the winning goal, his third of the day, against goalie Horace
Birch, the Ravenclaw Gremlin. His team collected around him, jumping and
hollering as if they'd just won the House Cup. In fact, the winning team's
house was rewarded one hundred points by Professor Curry, that being the
best prize she could offer. The team circled James, heaving him onto their
shoulders and carrying him into the courtyard as if he had just returned
from slaying a dragon. He grinned hugely, his cheeks beet red in the chilly
autumn wind, and his spirits were higher than they'd been all year.
The routine of classes and homework, which had been daunting during
the first weeks, became dull and predictable. Professor Jackson assigned
endless dreaded essays and sprung unsuspecting 'pop quizzes' on his class
every couple of weeks. Zane told James and Ralph amusing tales of
confrontations between Professor Trelawney and Madame Delacroix during
his Tuesday night Constellations Club, which, like Divination class, both
professors managed to share. On the Quidditch pitch, James continued to
advance his broom skills with the help of both Ted and Zane until he began
to feel cautiously confident that he might, indeed, make the Gryffindor team
next year. He began to imagine how rich it might be to show up at tryouts
next spring and wildly surpass everyone's memories of his first year
attempts. Zane, for his part, continued to fly remarkably well for the
Ravenclaws. Calling on his rather unique Muggle background, he invented
a move he called 'buzzing the tower', in which he'd hit a Bludger around the
press box, letting it gather speed as it circled back, then meet it on the other
side, striking it again to add even more speed and a bit of direction. Using
that trick, he had managed to knock two players completely off their
brooms, leading to a few apologetic visits to the hospital wing.

Life for Ralph in the Slytherin house had been rough for a while.
Tabitha had never actually spoken to him about his desertion of the debate
stage or his abandoning of the Progressive Element meetings. James and
Zane figured she'd ceased having any use for him when he'd returned to
being James' friend. Eventually, the older Slytherins simply forgot about
Ralph, apart from a few cool stares or snide remarks in the Slytherin
common room. Then, surprisingly, Ralph began to befriend some other
first- and second-year Slytherins. Unlike the blue badge wearers, none of
them seemed all that interested in the broader world of politics and causes.
To be sure, there was a sort of shifty guile to even the first-year Slytherins,
but a couple of them seemed to genuinely like Ralph, and even James had
to admit they were funny, in a double-edged sort of way.
Defense Against the Dark Arts became a favorite class of James, Zane,
and Ralph. Professor Franklyn taught a very practical class, with many
exciting stories and real-life examples from his own long and wildly various
adventures. James, to no one's surprise, was a very good dueler. He
admitted, with a sheepish grin, that he'd been taught quite a lot of defensive
technique by his dad. Nobody, however, including James, was willing to go
up against Ralph in a duel. Ralph's wand skills seemed remarkably
haphazard when it came to defensive spell-casting. The first time he'd
dueled, Ralph had attempted a simple Expelliarmus spell on Victoire. He
struck out with his wand, a bit wildly, and a bolt of blue lightning had
erupted from the end, singeing Victoire's hair so that a ragged bald stripe
ran straight across the top of her head. She patted at it with her hand, then
her eyes nearly boggled out of her head. She screamed in rage and had to be
restrained by three other students from tackling Ralph, who was three times
her size. Ralph backed away, apologizing profusely, his wand still smoking.
Only once, during an evening in the Ravenclaw common room, did
anyone have the temerity to mention anything to James, Zane, and Ralph
about the debate. They were just finishing their homework when a large
fourth year named Gregory Templeton sat down at the table across from
them.
"Hey, you were both in that debate, weren't you?" he said, pointing
back and forth between Zane and Ralph.

"Yeah, Gregory," Zane said, shoving his books into his backpack, his
voice betraying his general dislike of the older boy.
"You were the one at the table with Corsica, right?" Gregory said,
turning to Ralph.
"Er. Yeah," Ralph said, "but…"
"You tell her from me she's right on the mark, eh? I been reading a
book that tells all about the whole thing. It's called The Dumbledore Plot,
and it's all about how the old man and that Harry Potter cooked the whole
thing up, start to finish. Did you know they made up the whole story about
Riddle and the Horcruxes on the night the old man died? Some even say it
was Harry Potter himself killed him, once they'd worked it all out."
James struggled to control his temper. He looked levelly at Gregory.
"Do you even know who I am?"
Zane stared hard at the bottle in Gregory's hand. "Hey," he asked with
forced casualness, surreptitiously pulling out his wand, "what's that you're
drinking?"
Ninety seconds later, James, Zane, and Ralph scrambled as Gregory
spat nurgle water all over the common room table.
"Practicing!" Zane called, ducking under Gregory's grasping arms. "I
swear! I was supposed to practice that transfiguration! Your drink just got in
the way! Ask McGonagall!"
The three boys successfully ducked from the room, laughing
uproariously at the ensuing chaos.
By Christmas holiday, James was ready for a break. After lunch on his
last day of class, James went up to the Gryffindor sleeping chamber to pack
his things. The sky outside the tower window had grown chilly and grey,

making him wish for the grand fireplace back at number twelve Grimmauld
Place and one of Kreacher's very complicated hot chocolates, which
consisted, at last count, of fourteen unnamed ingredients, including, he had
been assured, at least a pinch of actual chocolate.
"Hey, James," Ralph's voice called up the stairs, "you up there?"
"Yeah. Come on up, Ralph."
"Thanks," Ralph panted, climbing the steps. "I came up after lunch
with Petra. She said you'd be here packing. All raring to go, I expect."
"Yeah! We're having everyone over to the old headquarters for the
holidays this year. Uncles George and Ron, Aunts Hermione and Fleur, Ted
and his grandmum, Victoire, even Luna Lovegood, who you don't know, but
you'd be keen on. She's the weirdest grownup I've ever met, but in a good
way. Mostly. Grandmum and Granddad won't be there, though. They're
visiting Charlie and everybody in Prague this year. Still, I think even
Neville will be there. Professor Longbottom, I mean."
Ralph nodded glumly, staring into James' trunk. "Sounds swell. Yeah,
well, I hope you have a happy Christmas and all that, then."
James stopped packing, remembering that Ralph's dad was traveling
for business over the holidays. "Oh, yeah. So what will you be doing,
Ralph? Will you be spending Christmas with your grandparents or
something?"
"Hmm?" Ralph said, glancing up. "Oh. Nah. Looks like I'll just be
hanging around here for the holidays. Zane's not leaving until next week, so
at least I'll have him to hang around with over the weekend. After that…
well, I'll figure out something to do with myself." He sighed hugely.
"Ralph," James said, tossing a pair of mismatched socks into his trunk,
"do you want to come and have Christmas with my family and me?"
Ralph tried to look surprised. "What? No, no, I'd never want to impose

on your big family gathering, what with all the, you know… I couldn't.
No…"
James frowned. "Ralph, you prat, if you don't come home with me for
the holidays, I will personally perform a random transfiguration on you
with your own wand. How about that, then?"
"Well, you don't have to get pushy about it!" Ralph exclaimed, then his
face broke into a grin. "Your mum and dad won't mind?"
"No. To tell you the truth, with all the people that'll be in and out of the
place, I'm not sure they'll even notice."
Ralph rolled his eyes. "I meant about me being on the… you know, the
wrong side of the debate and everything."
"They listened to it on the wireless, Ralph."
"I know!"
"And you never said a word."
Ralph opened his mouth, then closed it. He thought for a moment.
Finally, he grinned and plopped onto Ted's bed. "I see your point. So you
say Victoire will be there?"
"Don't get any ideas. She's part Veela you know. She puts the whammy
on any guy that gets within ten feet of her."
"I just wanted to try to make it up to her somehow. You know, about
that whole incident in D.A.D.A."
James slammed his trunk. "Ralph, mate, the less you say about that,
the better."

The next morning, breakfast in the Great Hall was thinly attended. A
heavy frost had fallen in the early hours, etching silver fern shapes in the
corners of the windows and giving the view beyond a hoary ghostliness.
James and Ralph arrived at the same time and found Zane at the Ravenclaw
table.
"You're a lucky stiff, Ralph," Zane said grumpily, huddling around his
coffee cup. "I'm dying to see what a magical Christmas is like."
"To tell you the truth," James said, pouring himself a pumpkin juice,
"I doubt it'd live up to your imagination."
"Maybe you're right. Even at the best of times, I gotta admit, it feels a
little like Halloween around here."
"Hey, Ralph," James said, nudging the bigger boy, "wait until you see
our traditional Christmas parade of ghouls! We'll have candy cane-stuffed
bats to eat and drink hot chocolate out of elf skulls!"
Ralph blinked. Zane looked sour and rolled his eyes. "Yeah, yeah, you're a
laugh riot. Not."
"Come on," Ralph said, finally getting the joke. "You'll have a great
Christmas with your family. At least you get to see your mum and dad."
"Yeah, sure. An eight-hour flight back to the States with my sister,
Greer, bugging me the whole way about life at that crazy magical school.
She'll be disappointed that, so far, the only way I can affect things with my
wand is to hit them with it."
"We're not allowed to practice magic out of Hogwarts, anyway," Ralph
said instructively.
Zane ignored him. "And then Christmas with the grandparents and all

my cousins in Ohio. You have no idea what kind of craziness that always
is."
James couldn't help asking. "How do you mean?"
"Imagine the traditional all-American Norman Rockwell Christmas
scene, right?" Zane said, holding up his hands as if framing a picture.
"Opening presents, and carving turkey, and carols by the Christmas tree.
Got it?" Ralph and James nodded, trying not to smile at Zane's grave
expression.
"All right," Zane went on. "Now imagine hinkypunks instead of
people. You'll get the idea."
James burst out laughing. Ralph, as usual, just blinked and looked
back and forth between the two other boys.
"That's fantastic!" James hooted.
Zane smiled reluctantly. "Yeah, well, it is pretty funny, I guess. The
screeches and the clawing, all those tiny shreds of wrapping paper flying all
over the place, landing in the fireplace and nearly burning the place to the
ground."
"What's a hinkypunk?" Ralph asked, trying to keep up.
"Ask Hagrid next Care of Magical Creatures," James said, still
chuckling. "It'll all make sense."
Late that morning, Ralph and James said goodbye to Zane, then
hauled their trunks out to the courtyard. Ted and Victoire were already
there, sitting on their trunks on the top step, framed against the strangely
silent, frost-laden grounds. Victoire's hair had been regrown as well as
possible by Madam Curio in the hospital wing, but the new hair was just
different enough in texture and color to be noticeable. As a result, Victoire
had taken to wearing a rather amazing variety of hats. The hats, if anything,
enhanced her appearance, but she complained about them at every

opportunity. Today, she had donned a small ermine pillbox cap, cocked
rakishly over her left eyebrow. She glared coolly at Ralph as he dragged his
trunk out onto the step. A few minutes later, Hagrid drove up at the head of
a carriage. Ralph's mouth dropped open when he saw that nothing,
apparently, was pulling the carriage.
"You lot aren't s'posed to see these until next year, mind," Hagrid said
to James and Ralph. He yanked the brake lever, climbed down, and began
heaving their trunks easily onto the back of the carriage. "So be sure to act
surprised when yeh sees 'em next spring, right?"
"Oh, Hagrid," Victoire said haughtily, "if zese awful things are as ugly
as mummy tells me, I'm glad I can't see zem, anyway." She held out a hand
and Ted took it, helping her rather unnecessarily into the carriage.
There were a few other students crammed into the carriage, all
similarly late departures for the holidays. Hagrid drove them to Hogsmeade
station, where they boarded the Hogwarts Express again. The train was far
emptier than it had been on their arriving journey. The four of them found a
compartment near the end, then settled in for the long trip.
"So Hogsmeade is a wizard village?" Ralph asked Ted.
"Sure is. Home to The Three Broomsticks and Honeydukes
Sweetshop. Best Cockroach Clusters in the world. Lots of other shops, too.
You'll get to go on Hogsmeade weekends starting your third year."
Ralph looked thoughtful, which meant his brow pinched down while
his lower lip pooched up, squeezing his entire face toward his nose. "So
how do wizards keep Muggles out of a magical village? I mean, aren't there
any roads or anything?"
"Tricky question, mate," Ted said, slouching on his seat and kicking
off his shoes.
Victoire wrinkled her nose. "You will keep zose dirt-kickers away from me,
Mr. Lupin."

Ted ignored her, stretching his legs across the compartment and resting
his feet on the opposite seat. "I'm in old Stonewall's Applied Advanced
Technomancy class this semester, and all I can tell you is that places like
Hogsmeade aren't just hidden because Muggles can't find a road in. It's all
quantum. If Petra was here, she could explain it better."
James was curious. "What's 'quantum' mean?"
Ted shrugged. "It's a joke in A.A.T. When in doubt, just say
'quantum'." He sighed resignedly, gathering his thoughts. "All right,
imagine that there are places on the earth that are like a hole in space
patched with rubber, see? You can't tell anything's different from the top,
but it's maybe a little bouncy or something. Then, say, some wizard comes
along who really knows his quantum. He says, 'Gor, here's a place where we
can put up a smashing wizard village." So what he does is he conjures
something sort of like a huge magical weight, but it's really, really tiny,
right? And the weight drops into the bit of rubbery reality and pulls it down,
down, down. OK. So the weight punches that rubber reality right out into
another dimension, making a funnel in the shape of space-time."
"Wait," Ralph said, frowning in concentration. "What's space-time?"
"Never mind," Ted said, waving dismissively. "Doesn't matter. It's all
quantum. Nobody gets it except for crusty old parchment-heads like
Professor Jackson. So anyway, there's this funnel in space-time where the
weight pushes down on the rubber reality. Muggles, see, can only operate
on the surface of reality. They don't see where the funnel dips down into
this new dimensional space. To them, it just isn't even there. Magic folk,
though, we can follow the funnel down off main-space, if we know what to
look for and share the secret. So we build places like Hogsmeade there."
"So Hogsmeade is down in some sort of funnel-shaped valley," Ralph
said experimentally.
"No," Ted said, sitting up again. "It's just, you know, a metaphor. The
landscape looks just the same, but dimensionally, it goes out through the

other side of space-time, where Muggles can't go. Lots of wizard places
have been built that way. We breed magical creatures in quantum preserves.
Whole mountain ranges where the giants live, all buried in quantum, off the
Muggle maps. That's pretty much how unplottability works. Simple as
that."
"Simple as what?" Ralph said, frustrated.
Ted sighed. "Look, mate, it's like the Cockroach Clusters in
Honeydukes. You don't need to understand how they make them. You just
need to eat 'em."
Ralph slumped. "I'm not sure I can do either."
"This bloke's a real barrel o' laughs, isn't he?" Ted asked James.
"So if Muggles can't get in," James replied, "how'd that Muggle get
onto the school grounds?"
"Oh yeah," Ted said, leaning back again. "The mysterious Quidditch
intruder. Is that what people are saying now? That he was a Muggle?"
James had forgotten that not everything he knew about the intruder
was common knowledge. He recalled now what Neville Longbottom had
said about the wild rumors surrounding the mysterious man on the
Quidditch pitch. "Yeah," he said, trying to sound nonchalant, "I heard he
may have been a Muggle. I was just wondering how a Muggle could get in,
what with all this stuff about, you know, quantum."
"Actually," Ted said, squinting out the window at the brightening day,
"I guess even a Muggle could get in if they were accompanied by a wizard
or led in somehow. It's not that they can't get in, exactly. It's just that, as far
as their senses are concerned, the spaces don't even exist. If a magical
person led them in, though, and the Muggle pushed through what their
senses were telling them… sure, it'd be possible, I guess. But who'd be
stupid enough to do such a thing?"

James shrugged, and looked at Ralph. The look on Ralph's face
mirrored what James was thinking. Stupid or not, somebody had indeed led
a Muggle onto the Hogwarts grounds. How or why that had been arranged
was still a mystery, but James intended to do his best to find out.
The four of them lunched on sandwiches wrapped in wax paper, taken
from the Hogwarts kitchens that morning, then settled into companionable
silence. The day became hard and bright, with the sun shining like a
diamond over the marching fields and woods. The frost had burned away,
leaving the ground raw and grey. The skeletal trees scoured at the sky,
standing on carpets of dead leaves. Ralph read and napped. Victoire flipped
through a pile of magazines, then wandered off in search of a few friends
she suspected were somewhere on board. Ted taught James to play a game
called 'Winkles and Augers', which involved using wands to levitate a piece
of parchment folded into the shape of a fat triangle. According to Ted, both
players used their wands--the winkles--to simultaneously levitate the folded
parchment--the auger-each one trying to guide the paper into their
designated goal area, usually a circle drawn on a piece of parchment and
placed near their opponent. James had gotten marginally better at levitation,
but he was no match for Ted, who knew just how to undercut James'
wandwork, bobbing the auger out of range and swooping it onto his goal
with a resounding smack.
"It's all about practice, James," Ted said. "I've been playing this since
my first year. We've had as many as four people on a team sometimes, and
used augers as big as the bust of Godric Gryffindor in the common room.
I'm personally responsible for the fact that his left ear's been glued back on.
Didn't know the Reparo charm back then, and now we've come to rather
prefer him that way."
By the time the train pulled into Platform Nine and Three Quarters,
dusk had begun to turn the sky a dreamy lilac color. James, Ted, and Ralph
waited for the lurch as the train came to a full stop, then stood, stretched,
and made their way out to the platform.
The porter took their tickets, then produced their trunks with an Accio

spell, sucking each trunk rather roughly out of the baggage compartment
and plunking it at its owner's feet. Victoire caught up with them as they
piled their trunks onto a large cart.
"I'm to escort you all to the old headquarters," Ted said importantly,
drawing himself to his full height. "It's close enough, and your parents are
pretty busy tonight, James, what with everyone else arriving, and Lily and
Albus just getting out of school today as well."
They filed through the hidden portal that separated Platform Nine and
Three Quarters from the Muggle platforms of King's Cross station.
"You don't drive, Ted," Victoire said reproachfully. "And you'll hardly
fit the four of us on your broom. What do you expect to do?"
"I suppose you're right, Victoire," Ted said, stopping in the center of
the concourse and looking around. Muggle travelers moved around them,
hurrying here and there, most bundled into heavy coats and hats. The huge
concourse echoed with the sound of train announcements and the tinkly din
of recorded Christmas carols.
"Looks like we're stuck," Ted said mildly. "I'd say this is an emergency
of sorts, wouldn't you?"
"Ted, no!" Victoire scolded as Ted raised his right hand, his wand
sticking up out of it.
There was a loud crack that echoed all around the concourse,
apparently unheard by the milling Muggles. A huge, purple shape shot
through the doors framed in the gigantic glassed arch at the head of the
concourse. It was, of course, the Knight Bus. James had known to expect it
when Ted had made the signal, but he'd never known it could travel offroad. The enormous triple-decker bus dodged and squeezed through the
oblivious crowd, never losing speed until it squeaked violently to a halt
directly in front of Ted. The doors shuttled open and a man in a natty,
purple uniform leaned out.

"Welcome to the Knight Bus," the man said, a bit huffily. "Emergency
transport for the stranded witch or wizard. You know this is the middle of
effing King's Cross station, don't you? Seems like you could've at least
made it to the front step."
"Evening, Frank," Ted said airily, hoisting Victoire's trunk up to the
conductor. "It's this bad leg of mine again. Old Quidditch injury. Acts up at
the worst of times."
"Old Quidditch injury my topmost granny's last molar," Frank
muttered, stacking the trunks on a shelf just inside the door. "You try
pulling that gaf one more time and I'm going to charge you a Galleon just
for being a nuisance."
Ralph was reluctant to get onto the bus. "You say it's close? This
headquarters place? Maybe we could, you know, walk?"
"In this cold?" Ted replied heartily.
"And with his bad leg?" Frank added sourly.
Ralph climbed on and had no sooner crossed the threshold when the
doors slammed shut.
"Corner of Pancras and St. Chad's, Ernie," Ted called, grabbing a
nearby brass handle.
The driver nodded, set his face grimly, gripped the steering wheel as if
he meant to wrestle it, then punched the accelerator. Ralph, despite James'
advice, had forgotten to grab onto something. The Knight Bus rocketed
forward, throwing him backwards onto one of the brass beds that, strangely
enough, seemed to occupy the lowest level of the bus instead of seats.
"Hmmph?" the sleeping wizard that Ralph had landed on muttered,
raising his head from the pillow. "Grosvenor Square already?"

The bus performed an inconceivably tight hairpin turn, circling a group
of tourists who were staring up at the departures board, then rocketed across
the concourse again, whipping around businessmen and old ladies like a
gust of wind. The glassed arch loomed over them, and James was certain
the Knight Bus couldn't possibly fit through the open doorways, large as
they were. Then he remembered that the bus had, indeed, come in through
those doors. He braced himself. Without slowing, the bus squeezed through
the door like a water balloon through a mousehole, popping out onto the
crowded street and swerving wildly.
"I hear we're having goose for dinner tonight!" Ted called to James as
the bus careened through a busy intersection.
"Yeah!" James called back. "Kreacher insisted on a full course meal
our first night back!"
"Gotta love that ugly little brute!" Ted yelled appreciatively. "How's
Ralph doing?"
James glanced around. Ralph was still sprawled on the bed with the
sleeping wizard. "It's all right," he yelled, clutching the bed with both
hands. "I threw up in the souvenir sleeping cap they gave me."
The Knight Bus screamed around the corner where St. Chad's Street
met Argyle Square, then jammed to a halt. If anything, the sudden cessation
of motion was as jarring as the ride itself. The gigantic purple bus sat
quietly and primly, puttering a dainty cloud of exhaust. The doors shuttled
open and Ted, Victoire, James, and Ralph clambered out, the latter a little
drunkenly. Frank, despite the rankled look he shot Ted, stacked their trunks
carefully on the sidewalk and bid them a happy Christmas. The doors
cranked shut and a moment later, the Knight Bus leapt down the street,
streaking around a lorry and performing something rather like a pirouette at
the intersection. Three seconds later, it was gone.
"That worked as well as could be expected," Ted said heartily,
grabbing his and Victoire's trunks by the handle and yanking them toward a
line of dilapidated row houses.

"What number is it?" Ralph said, puffing and dragging his huge trunk.
"Number twelve. Right here," James replied. He had been to the old
headquarters so many times he'd forgotten that it was invisible to most
people. Ralph stopped at the base of the steps, his brow furrowed and
frowning.
"Oh yeah," James said, turning around. "OK, Ralph. You can't see it
yet, but it's right here. Number twelve Grimmauld Place, right here between
eleven and thirteen. It used to belong to my dad's godfather, Sirius Black,
but he willed it to Dad. It was the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix,
back in the day when they were fighting Voldemort. They buried it with the
best Secrecy Spells and Disillusionment Charms all the most powerful good
wizards at the time could conjure. It was the best kept secret place of the
Order, until right at the end, when a Death Eater followed my aunt here
using Side-Along Apparition. Anyway, it officially still belongs to Dad, but
we don't live here most of the time. Kreacher keeps it up when we're not
here."
"I didn't understand about every third word of that," Ralph said,
sighing, "but I'm cold. How do we get in?"
James reached down for Ralph's hand. Ralph gave it to him, and James
pulled him up onto the first step of the landing leading into number twelve.
Ralph stumbled, regained his footing and looked up. His eyes widened and
a grin of delight spread across his face. James had no memory of his first
visit to the old headquarters, but he knew from other people's descriptions
how the doorway revealed itself the first time you arrived, how number
twelve simply pushed numbers eleven and thirteen aside like a man
shouldering his way through a crowd. James couldn't help grinning back at
Ralph's wonderment.
"I love being a wizard," Ralph said meaningfully.
As James slammed the door, his mum strode quickly toward him from

the hall, wiping her hands on a towel. "James!" she cried, gathering him
into her arms and nearly yanking him off his feet.
"Mum," James said, embarrassed and pleased. "Come on, you're gonna
melt the Chocolate Frog in my shirt pocket already."
"You're not too old to give your mum a kiss after being gone for four
months, you know," she chided him.
"You know how it is," Ted exclaimed mournfully. "One moment,
they're yanking your apron strings, the next, they're asking to borrow the
broom to go snogging with some crumpet. Where does the time go?"
James' mum grinned, turning to Ted and embracing him as well. "Ted,
you never change. Or shut up. Welcome. And you too, Victoire. Adorable
hat, by the way." Ralph groaned, but James' mum went on before Victoire
could offer any pointed explanation. "And you are Ralph, of course. Harry
mentioned you, and of course, James has told me loads about you in his
letters. My name's Ginny. I hear you are quite the wand master."
"Where is Dad, by the way?" James asked quickly, cutting Victoire off
again.
"He picked up Andromeda after work today. They should be home
soon enough. Everyone else will be here tomorrow."
"James!" two smaller voices chimed in unison, to the accompaniment
of thundering footsteps. "Ted! Victoire!" Lily and Albus shoved past their
mum. "What'd you bring us?" Albus demanded, stopping in front of James.
"Direct from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry," James
said grandly, "I bring you both… hugs!" He grabbed Albus in a bear hug.
Albus pushed and struggled, simultaneously laughing and annoyed.
"No! I wanted some Drooble's Best Blowing Gum from the cart lady! I
told you!"

Ted squatted down and squeezed Lily. "I got you something you'll
love, my dear."
"What is it?" she asked, suddenly shy.
"You'll have to wait until Christmas, won't you? Your mummy's all
stocked up on dragon kibble, isn't she?"
"Ted Lupin!" Ginny snapped. "Don't get her hopes up, you rogue. Now
come on, all of you. Kreacher's been in the basement all afternoon
preparing what he calls 'a fitting and proper tea service'. Don't fill up,
though, or you'll not be hungry for the goose he cooked, and he'll sulk all
week."
Harry and Ted's grandmum, Andromeda Tonks, arrived half an hour
later, and the rest of the evening was a whirlwind of food, happy laughter,
and catching up. Harry and Ginny, it turned out, hadn't even listened to the
Hogwarts debate, despite what James had assumed. Andromeda Tonks had,
though, and was full of endless vitriol for Tabitha Corsica and her team.
Fortunately, she had no idea whatsoever that Ralph had also been on the
team, and Ralph was all too happy to allow her to continue in that
ignorance.
"Don't worry," Ted murmured to Ralph over dessert, "if anybody says
anything, I'll tell her you were a spy operating undercover. She loves
espionage, does the old dear."
Kreacher hadn't changed a single iota. He bowed low to James, one
hand over his heart, the other spread wide. "Master James, come back from
his first year of schooling, he has," he warbled in his bullfrog voice.
"Kreacher has prepared Master's quarters just the way he likes them. Would
Master and his friend care for a watercress sandwich?"
Kreacher had, as usual, kept the house in exceptional order, and had
even gone to the trouble to decorate for the holidays. Unfortunately,
Kreacher's concept of good cheer was a bit rustic, and the result would have
amused Zane endlessly. The severed heads of the previous house-elves,

which still hung in the hallway as a testament to the original pureblood
owners of the estate, had been dressed with fake, white beards and conical,
green caps with jingle bells on the tips.
"Kreacher had bewitched them to sing holiday songs, too, he did,"
Kreacher told James and Ralph a bit petulantly. "But the missus decided
that that was perhaps a bit too… festive. Kreacher liked it, though, just the
same." He seemed to be angling to be allowed to reinstate the caroling
heads. James assured Kreacher that it had been a wonderfully inventive idea
and he'd talk to his mum about it. He was, in fact, morbidly curious to see
and hear the heads in action.
Both Lily and Albus followed James and Ralph around most of the
night, begging to see what the boys could do with their newly learned skills.
"Come on, James!" Albus demanded. "Show us a levitation! Levitate
Lily!"
"No!" Lily cried. "Levitate Albus! Fly him out the window!"
"You both know I can't do magic once I'm off the train and officially
out of Hogwarts," James said wearily. "I'll get in trouble."
"Dad's Head Auror, you git. You probably won't even get a warning."
"It's irresponsible," James said seriously. "You get older and you'll
know what that means."
"You can't do it, can you?" Albus taunted. "James can't do a levitation!
Some wizard you are. First Squib in the Potter family. Mum will die of
shame."
"You're the same Albus-blabbus you ever were, you little skrewt."
"Don't call me that!"

"What, skrewt or Albus-blabbus?" James smiled. "You know Albusblabbus is your real name, don't you? It's on your birth certificate. I saw it."
"Albus-blabbus!" Lily sang, dancing around her older brother.
Albus jumped on James, wrestling him to the floor.
Later, as James and Ralph headed to James' bedroom for the night,
they passed a curtain that seemed to be drawn over a section of wall. A
sleepy muttering came from behind it.
"Old Mrs. Black," James explained. "Crazy old nutter. Wigs out about
people desecrating the house of her fathers and stuff every time she sees
any of us. Dad and Neville have done everything they could think of to get
the old bat off the wall, but she's stuck there right good. Even considered
cutting out the section of wall with the portrait on it, but it's a main wall.
Cutting her out would probably bring the next floor right down on top of us.
Besides, strange as it may seem, Kreacher's rather attached to her, since she
was his old mistress. So I suppose she's part of the family forever."
Ralph peeked tentatively behind the curtain. He furrowed his brow. "Is
she… watching television?"
James shrugged. "We discovered that a few years back. We had the
front door open because we were moving in a new sofa. She saw a telly
through the window across the street and shut right up for the first time in
weeks. So we hired a wizard artist to come and paint one right into her
portrait. Crazy old bat loves the chat shows. Ever since then, well, she's
been a lot more bearable."
Ralph slowly let the curtain drape back over the portrait. A man's voice
behind it was saying, "And when did you first notice that your dog had
Tourette's syndrome, Mrs. Drakemont?"
Kreacher had arranged a cot for Ralph in James' room. His trunk was

placed neatly at the end of it, and there was a ribbon-wrapped pinecone on
each pillow, apparently Kreacher's idea of a Christmas mint.
"This used to be my dad's godfather's room," James said sleepily, once
they had settled down.
"Cool," Ralph muttered. "Good guy, was he? Or was he a nutter, like
the old witch in the portrait?"
"One of the best guys ever, according to Dad. We'll have to tell you
about him sometime. He was wanted for murder for over a decade."
There was a minute of silence, and then Ralph's voice spoke in the
darkness. "You wizards can be pretty bloody confusing, you know that?"
James grinned. A minute later, both of them were asleep.

11. The Three Relics
After the initial excitement of travel and arrivals, Christmas break at
Grimmauld Place became rather humdrum. James introduced Ralph to
everyone, and Ralph very shortly became simply one more of the throng of
friends and family that crammed the house. On the Wednesday before
Christmas, Uncle Ron and Aunt Hermione arrived, along with their
children, Hugo and Rose. They were followed shortly thereafter by Uncle
Bill and Aunt Fleur, Victoire's parents. James was very fond of them all,
and even though the house was beginning to feel rather strained to capacity,
he was thrilled they were staying over through the break.
"It's a good thing Mum and Dad are off with Charlie this year," Ron
commented, lugging his and Hermione's luggage up the steps to their thirdfloor bedroom. "This place seems so much smaller than it did when we
were kids."

"It's just you who's bigger, Ron," Hermione chided, elbowing him
affectionately in the stomach. "You've got no room to complain."
"I'm not complaining. At least we get a room. If Percy was here, he'd
have to bunk in with Kreacher."
James and Ralph, along with James' siblings and cousins, spent their
days by the fire, playing wizard chess with Uncle Ron or roaming the
nearby streets, performing last-minute errands and Christmas shopping with
Ginny or Aunt Hermione. Fleur and Bill enlisted James and Ralph's help in
picking out and transporting a Christmas tree, which had looked merely
charmingly plump outside, but had taken up twothirds of the main hall
when they'd brought it in.
"Seems a shame to do it," Bill said, producing his wand and pointing it
at the tree. "Reducio!"
The tree shrunk by a third, but managed to maintain its density, so that
it ended up looking rather more like a Christmas bush than a tree. Ralph,
James, Rose, and Victoire spent most of the day before Christmas Eve
stringing popcorn, decorating the tree, and wrapping presents. That night,
Hermione gathered the entire household with the intention of bundling
everyone up and going Christmas caroling. Neither Ron nor Harry,
however, were particularly overjoyed about the idea.
"Give us a break, Hermione," Harry said, dropping into an easy chair
by the fire. "We've been on our feet all day."
"Yeah," Ron chimed in, bolstered a bit, "it's just the start of the
holiday. We haven't even had a chance to sit down yet, have we?"
"Ronald Weasley, you get your bottom into your coat and hat,"
Hermione replied, tossing Ron's things onto his lap. "We only get the whole
family together once a year anymore, if we're lucky, and I'm not going to let
you sit on your bum all night just as if you were at home. Besides," she

added a bit truculently, "you said on the way here that you thought caroling
sounded fun."
"That was before I knew you were serious," Ron muttered, climbing to
his feet and shrugging on his coat.
"You too," Ginny smiled, grabbing Harry's hand and pulling him out of
the chair. "You can lounge around all Christmas day if you wish. Tonight,
we're going to have some fun, whether you like it or not."
Harry groaned, but allowed Ginny to work his coat onto him. She
punched him playfully in the stomach and he grinned, grabbing his scarf. To
Ron's and Harry's apparent annoyance, Bill was raring to go, performing
scales in the hallway, his hand on his chest. Fleur, dressed as resplendently
as her daughter, smiled adoringly at him. As they headed out the door,
James heard Uncle Ron mutter to his dad, "I swear he acts like that as much
to spite us as to impress her."
The night had turned out so perfectly and quintessentially Christmaslike that James wondered if his mum and Aunt Hermione had somehow
bewitched it. Fat, silent snowflakes had begun to fall, muffling the distant
city sounds and blanketing the grimy walls and sidewalks with sparkling
white. Hermione passed out sheets of music, and then arranged everyone so
that the youngest were in front and the oldest and tallest were in back. "If
Mum weren't still around," Ron said to Harry in a low voice, "I'd swear
Hermione was channeling her." During a practice chorus, Hermione became
annoyed at Ted, who insisted on singing amusing variations of the lyrics, to
the great delight of Albus and Hugo. Finally satisfied, she led the troupe
through the streets surrounding Grimmauld Place, ringing doorbells and
directing the choruses. Most of the Muggles who answered their doors
stood and listened with something like strained amusement on their faces.
Once, an old man with a large hearing aid yelled at them that he didn't
support any charities except the Hortense Home for Feral Felines, and then
slammed his door.
"McGonagall owes him a Christmas card, then," Ted said, barely
missing a beat.

James waved a hand at Ralph before he could ask. "Animagus. I'll
explain later."
Christmas morning dawned with dazzling brightness, the sun turning
the snow-frosted windows into blinding tableaux. Ralph and James met
Albus and Rose on their way down the steps to breakfast.
"It's no use," Rose said dolefully. "Mum swears she'll Crucio anyone
who tries to open a present before breakfast."
James blinked. "Aunt Hermione said that?"
"Well," answered Albus, "not in so many words. But she's really in a
snit ever since she caught us using a pair of Uncle George's z-ray spectacles
on the presents to see what was in them. She just about turned Dementor on
him. It was scary!"
"Uncle George is here?" James asked, trotting down the rest of the
stairs and heading for the kitchen. "Excellent!"
"Yeah, but he brought Katie Bell with him," Albus said, pronouncing
the name with his most ingratiatingly snarky voice. Albus didn't so much
disapprove of Katie Bell as he disapproved of anyone threatening to alter
George Weasley's impish bachelorhood.
As James and Ralph turned the corner into the old kitchen, they heard
George's voice saying, "That's the sort of publicity that has allowed triple W
to grow to two locations and become the wizarding world's leading joke
shop, you know. You can't turn down a primo showstopper at a broadcast
event like the debate. It's all about the spectacle."
Katie Bell, an attractive woman with long brown hair, stirred her tea.
"You should've heard the way Myron Madrigal described it on the
wireless," she said, stifling a smile.
Ted scowled, then his curiosity got the better of him. "What'd he say?"

"He called it 'a puerile display of monumental poor taste'," George said
proudly, raising his juice glass in a toast.
"That's beautiful!" Ted grinned, clinking his glass to George's.
"James, good to see you!" George said, clapping his juice onto the
table and patting the seat next to him. "Have a seat and tell us how the old
alma mater is treating you."
"Great," James said, sitting down and grabbing a piece of toast.
"George, this is my friend, Ralph."
"Oh, we know all about you, don't we?" George said, leaning toward
Ralph and tapping the side of his nose. "Our man on the inside, eh?
Infiltrating the slimy underbelly of the Slytherin war machine. Spying and
sabotaging left and right, no doubt."
Ralph rolled his eyes at Ted.
"I didn't say anything," Ted said primly. "I happened to mention to him
that you were on Team B, way back when we ordered our little surprise
package. He figured out the rest on his own when he found out you were
here."
Ralph squirmed. "Well, that's not really true, you know. I'm just a kid."
"Never underestimate what a kid can do, Ralphie," George said
seriously.
"That's right," Katie nodded. "George and his brother, Fred, caused the
best class disruption in Hogwarts history in the middle of the reign of
Umbridge the Terrible."
"Like I said, it's all about the spectacle," George said.
"With a little revenge thrown in," Katie said, smiling.

"How dare you even suggest such a thing?"
Ralph and James exchanged looks.
James, Ralph, Ted, and George were the last at the breakfast table. The
younger siblings and cousins fairly dragged them from the table, finally
getting the entire household together for the opening of the presents.
"Didn't you do like I told you?" George said, laughing as Albus pulled
him into the parlor. "Open the presents in the middle of the night and then
re-wrap them again with the Reparo charm?"
"I tried!" Albus replied earnestly. "I nicked James' wand and practiced
on a box of biscuits. Couldn't get it to work! Made no end of a mess. Mum
just about thrashed me."
"You nicked my wand!" James cried, lunging after Albus. "I'll thrash
you myself! Give it back!"
Hooting, Albus darted away with James in pursuit.
There was much yelling and shredding of paper, and James couldn't
help thinking that Christmas at Grimmauld Place probably wasn't much
different than Zane's description of his family Christmas in the States,
hinkypunks and all. When the younger Weasleys and Potters had all opened
their presents and scampered off to enjoy them, the rest of the gifts were
opened with a bit more reserve. Harry had gotten Ginny an unusual new
cauldron, which she unwrapped and stared at rather blankly.
"It's a Conjure-Pot," he explained, a little defensively. "It makes dinner
a snap! You just throw in a few ingredients each morning, whatever you
have left lying around the cupboard. It doesn't matter what. The ConjurePot figures out the best dish to make with it, prepares it, and cooks it up
during the day. We all come home at night and voila, mystery meal. Great
for the working mum on the go."

"At least that's what the sign on the display at Tristan's and
Tupperworth's said," Ron remarked, grinning. Harry clipped him on the
back of the head.
Fleur sniffed. "Vere I come from, eet is considered improper for a man
to buy cookery as a gift."
"That's because where you come from, my dear," Bill said gently, "the
men do most of the cooking."
"Oh, just open the next one," Harry said, annoyed.
Ginny's next present turned out to be a pair of mer-pearl earrings,
which went over much better. Ginny seemed simultaneously distraught and
overjoyed by them.
"Harry! How did you pay for these? Mer-pearl! I never expected…!"
Her eyes glittered as she blinked back tears.
"Just put them on," Harry smiled. "If it makes you feel any better,
they're fake. Leprechaun-pearl. They came as a bonus gift with the ConjurePot."
"No, they didn't," she smiled, and kissed him.
Ron had gotten Hermione a small but apparently expensive bottle of
perfume called Whimsies' Enchantment, which Hermione was very pleased
with. Ginny and Hermione had gone together to buy Harry and Ron tickets
to the Quidditch World Cup.
"We knew you'd both been wanting to go for the past several years,"
Hermione explained as Harry and Ron congratulated each other. "But you
never think ahead to get advanced tickets. We've got eight total tickets, so
you can take the kids, if you wish. They'd love it. And your wives, of
course, if you wished. It's up to you."

But Harry and Ron had fallen into a debate about what teams would be
in the Cup and barely heard the last.
James opened his present and was surprised to see that his parents had
gotten him a new broom.
"Wow," he breathed. "A Thunderstreak! Mum, Dad, you got me a
Thunderstreak?"
"Well," Harry said slowly, "I knew you'd had some trouble getting
started on the broom, but I spoke to your friend, Zane, and he said you were
coming along really well. I thought you might like to practice on your own
broom. Those school brooms are too old. Slow, unwieldy, and the
handling's gone all mushy. You try this out and I think you'll notice the
difference straight off."
"Course, if you don't want it," George offered, "you could always trade
with Ted. That old Nimbus of his may be slow as a flobberworm, but it has
loads of antique value."
Ted hurled a ball of wrapping paper at George, hitting him square in
the face.
James felt a little sorry for Ralph, who had not heard from his dad
since the message that he'd be travelling over the holidays. Ralph shrugged
it off, saying his dad had probably sent his Christmas gift to the school.
James and Ralph were both surprised when Ginny handed Ralph a small,
wrapped package.
"It's not much," Ginny smiled, "but we thought you might enjoy it."
Ralph unwrapped the package and looked at it. It was a very dog-eared
and dilapidated book, the words on the cover almost illegible with age. It
was called Advanced Potion-Making.

"That belonged to a great Slytherin, like you'll be, no doubt," Harry
said somberly. "Frankly, I thought I'd lost it, but it turned up a few weeks
ago. I didn't know what to do with it until you came for the holiday. Then it
just made sense that you should have it. Don't let Professor Slughorn see it,
though. Just use it as a… reference."
Ralph flipped carefully through the old book. The margins were
crammed with hand-written notations and drawings. "Who wrote all this
stuff inside?"
"Doesn't really matter," Harry said cryptically. "You don't know him.
Just take care of it, and be careful how you use some of the stuff in there. It
can be a little… dodgy, sometimes. Still, it just seems right that it should be
in the hands of a good Slytherin man. Happy Christmas, Ralph."
Ralph thanked Harry and Ginny, a bit puzzled at the serious looks both
he and the book were getting. He recognized that, mysterious as the book
was, it was apparently rather meaningful. He wrapped it in a piece of cloth
Ginny gave him and placed it in the bottom of his trunk.
James was delighted when Neville and Luna Lovegood arrived that
afternoon. The two had been seeing each other for the past few months, but
James had heard his mum tell Andromeda Tonks that it wasn't going
anywhere. James couldn't guess how his mum knew such things, but he
never doubted that she was right. For James' part, Neville and Luna seemed
just a bit too brotherly and sisterly to be a couple.
After dinner, Grandmum Weasley appeared in the fireplace to wish
everyone a happy Christmas.
"We're having a perfectly delightful time here with Charlie," she said
from the grate. "And Prague is just lovely. I think you boys need to have a
talk with your father, though. He's gotten rather enamored with the Muggle
architecture here and is talking about staying on a few more weeks. He's
become so unpredictable now that he's retired from the Ministry. Oh, it is so

difficult having you kids all over the world like this. How am I supposed to
keep track of my grandbabies?"
"How are Charlie and Claire and the kids, then, Molly?" Hermione
asked, gently steering the topic to pleasanter subjects.
"Quite well, although Charlie insists on taking little Harold and Jules
to work with him on occasion. How these poor children can endure the
sight of such creatures and not have constant nightmares is simply beyond
me."
James, who'd met his younger cousins, Harold and Jules, a few times,
knew that it was likely that they, in fact, might give nightmares to the
dragons rather than the other way around.
Late that evening, as most of the household was beginning to drift to
bed, James and Ralph found themselves seated near the fire with Luna
Lovegood, who was telling them about her latest expedition into the
Highland Mountains in search of the Umgubular Slashkilter.
"Still no positive identification," she said, "but I discovered a vast
network of their tracks and leavings. Their diet seems to consist almost
entirely of blusterwermps and figgles, so it's pretty easy to identify their
dung by smell alone. Sort of pepperminty. Not at all unpleasant."
"Unglubulous… slashkillers?" Ralph attempted.
"Close enough," Luna said kindly. "They're a species of flightless
raptor, distantly related to hippogriffs and octogators. I took a mold of one
of their tracks and a stool sample from one of their leavings. Would you like
to smell it?"
"Luna," James said, leaning forward in his chair and lowering his
voice, "can we ask you a question about something? I'd rather nobody else
knew about it."

"I specialize in things nobody else knows about," Luna said mildly.
"I mean, I want to keep it sort of a secret."
"Oh," Luna said, her face placid. James waited, but Luna merely
watched him, smiling politely. Luna, he recalled, occasionally had a rather
unique approach to conversation. He decided to plow on.
"This isn't about Slashkilters or Wrackspurts or anything. Really, it'd
be a better question for your dad, if he was still around, but I bet you know
the answer, too. What can you tell us about… about Austramaddux and
Merlinus Ambrosius?"
Luna was the only completely unshockable person James knew. She
merely looked into the fire and said, "Ahh, yes, not exactly my specialty. A
lifelong hobby of my father's, though. Austramaddux was the historian who
recorded the last days of Merlinus and his promised return, of course. The
subject of much speculation and intrigue for centuries, you know."
"Yeah," James said, "we know. We read about him and the prediction
of his return. What we're wondering is how it could happen? What would it
take?"
Luna looked thoughtful. "It's a pity my father isn't here. He could
speak on the subject for days. He did once, in fact, at a gathering of
alternative magical publishers and broadcasters in Belfast. Gave a speech
on the implications of the Merlinus conspiracies and their hypothetical
plausibilities, if I recall. It went on for three and half days, until he fell
asleep at the podium. Actually, I think that he was asleep long before
anyone realized it. He was a notorious sleep-talker. Gave more than a few
of his speeches in a nightgown. Most people thought it was eccentricity, but
I think he was just multi-tasking." She sighed fondly.
James knew he wouldn't have much time before someone else, George,
or worse, his dad or mum, would come back into the room. "Luna, what did
he say about it? Did he think Merlin's return was possible?"

"Oh, he certainly did. Had a hundred theories about it. Hoped he'd live
to see the day, in fact, although even he wasn't any too sure that when
Merlinus returned, he'd be anything like what we'd call a good wizard.
Wrote a whole series of articles for The Quibbler explaining the three relics
and offering a hundred Galleon reward for anyone with valid clues to their
whereabouts."
James tried not to interrupt Luna. "What are the three relics?"
"Oh," Luna said, looking at him. "I thought you'd read about it?"
Ralph spoke up. "We did, but it didn't say anything about any relics. It
just said that Merlin would leave the world of men and return when the time
was ripe for him, or something."
"Ah, well, that's the key, then, isn't it?" Luna said placidly. "The relics
determine when the time is ripe. Merlin's three required magical elements,
his throne, his robe and his staff. He left them in the charge of
Austramaddux. According to the prediction, once the three relics are
brought together again in a place called the 'Hall of Elders' Crossing',
Merlinus will reappear to claim them."
James gasped. The Hall of Elder's Crossing, he thought, remembering
the legend inscribed on the gate of the secret island. He felt his heart
pounding and was sure Luna would hear it in his voice. He struggled to
sound merely curious. "So what became of Merlin's three relics, then?"
"No one knows for sure," Luna replied airily, "but my father had
developed some pretty strong theories. According to legend, Merlin's
ceremonial black robe was made of incorruptible fabric, allowing it to
survive eternally. It was supposedly used as a caulk over the body of
Kreagle, the first king of the wizarding world, in the belief that it would
prevent corruption. Alas, no one knows the location of Kreagle's tomb, its
Secret-Keepers having been inhumed within it to secure its secrecy
forever." Ralph shuddered as Luna went on. "Merlin's throne as advisor to
the kingdoms of the Muggles was passed from regime to regime, always

kept ready for the wizard's return, until it was eventually lost in the mists of
time. Some believe that it was recovered by a wizarding king in the sixteen
hundreds, and that it is stored today in the Ministry of Magic, forgotten in
the endless vaults of the Department of Mysteries. Finally," Luna said,
narrowing her eyes as she searched her memory, "the greatest of Merlin's
relics, his staff. Back then, wizards used staffs rather than wands, you know.
Long sticks, often as tall as the wizard himself. Merlin's was carved from
the trunk of a rare talking knucklewood tree. It is said that he could still
make his staff speak with the voice of the dryad that had given it.
Austramaddux kept the staff himself, claiming to be its sole keeper until the
day of Merlin's returning. He hid it, and the secret of its location is said to
have died with him."
"Wow," Ralph said in a low voice.
"But still," James said, "say someone could get all the relics back
together again. Where is this Hall of Elder's Crossing supposed to be?"
"Again, no one knows," Luna replied. "Austramaddux speaks of it as if
he expects his readers to know of it, as if it were a well-known place.
Perhaps it was then, but it has been completely lost to us now."
"But your father believed it would be possible to bring Merlinus back?
He thought it could happen?" James prodded.
For the first time, Luna's face became serious. She looked at James.
"My father believed in quite a wide variety of things, James, not all of them
technically consistent with reality. He did believe in the return of Merlinus.
He also believed in the healing power of Nargle warts, the fountain of
pleasing breath, and the existence of an entire subterranean civilization of
half-human creatures he called Mordmunks. In other words, just because
my father believed it, that hardly makes it true."
"Yeah, I guess," James said, but distractedly.
Luna went on. "No wizard has ever overcome death. Many have
cheated it for a while, using arts ranging from the creative to the

questionable to the outright evil. But no single wizard in all of history has
tasted death and returned to tell about it. It is the law of mortality. One life,
one death."
James nodded, but he was barely listening anymore. His mind was
reeling. Finally, Ginny peeked in and sent both boys off to bed.
"So what do you think?" Ralph asked as they passed the curtained
portrait of old Mrs. Black and climbed the stairs. "You still think there's a
big Merlin conspiracy?"
James nodded. "Definitely. Remember our first Defense Against the
Dark Arts class? When Professor Jackson came in to talk to Professor
Franklyn about something? They were both standing up front, then the
voodoo queen popped in to tell Jackson his class was waiting for him.
Remember?"
"Yeah, sure."
"Well, you know that case that Jackson carries with him pretty much
everywhere? I got a look into it. It came open a little and it was only a few
feet away from me. There was a big bundle of some kind of black cloth in
it. Jackson saw me looking and gave me a look that'd melt lead!"
James opened the door to his room and Ralph threw himself onto his
cot. "So? I don't get it."
"Remember what I told you about the night I hid under the Invisibility
Cloak and followed Dad and Professor Franklyn around? Franklyn told Dad
that he should keep an eye on Professor Jackson. He said that Jackson was
involved in the whole anti-Auror propaganda movement. Don't you see?"
Ralph frowned again, thinking hard. "I don't know. I can't believe
Professor Jackson would be part of a plot to start a war against the Muggles.
He's hardcore, but he seems cool."
"That's what I thought, too, but Ralph, you know what I think that

thing in his case was? I think it was one of the relics! I think it was Merlin's
robe! He's keeping it safe until he can get the rest of the relics together."
Ralph's eyes widened. "No!" he said in a low whisper. "Can't be! I
mean, Professor Jackson…!"
"That's not all," James said, digging into his backpack. "Take a look at
this." He pulled out the folded Daily Prophet that Zane had given him, the
one with the cover story about the demonstration against Harry Potter's
visit. "It's been in the bottom of my bag this whole time. I'd forgotten why I
even kept it, but take a look at the article on the back." James tapped the
article about the break-in at the Ministry of Magic and the strangely cursed
thieves who had apparently not gotten around to stealing anything. Ralph
read it slowly, then looked up at James, his eyes large.
"It says one of the places they broke into was the Department of
Mysteries," he said. "You think these guys were looking for the Merlin
throne?"
"Maybe," James admitted, thinking hard. "But I don't think so. I think
they were hired as a diversion. It says none of them had much of a prior
record, right? They couldn't have broken into the Ministry on their own. I
think maybe they were just a distraction, riffling things around and playing
a bit of havoc while someone else found the throne and got it out of there."
"But it says here nothing was stolen," Ralph said, glancing back at the
article.
"Well, they wouldn't admit that the throne of Merlin had been taken,
would they?" James replied. "I mean, that'd be a pretty scary bit of dark
magic to admit had gone missing, what with all the stories of evil wizards
trying to use the relics to bring back Merlin all these centuries past. Then
again," he thought back to what Luna had told them, "if it had been stored
in the vaults of the Department of Mysteries since the sixteen hundreds,
maybe they didn't even know it was there anymore. How would they know
if one item had gone missing from the place? Luna called them the 'endless
vaults', didn't she?"

"So," Ralph said, still scanning the news article, "somebody hires
these three goons to break in and make a mess of things, while the real
thieves make off with the throne of Merlin. Then the real thieves curse these
guys not to be able to talk, and set them up to take the fall. Right? Pretty
sneaky. But still, where do you hide something like Merlin's throne? Don't
powerful magical objects, especially dark ones, make a pretty noticeable
imprint? I mean, your dad and his Aurors would've picked up on it
somehow, wouldn't they?"
"Yeah," James agreed doubtfully, "they'd have to put it someplace
either really far away from civilization or hide it under loads of
Disillusionment Charms and Secrecy Spells. More than just any old witch
or wizard could whip up. They'd need a place totally protected and
absolutely secret, like…" He stopped, realization dawning on him. His
mouth hung open and his eyes grew wider and wider.
"What?" Ralph finally asked. James glanced at him, and then grabbed
the newspaper from him. He turned it around, examining the front page.
"That's it!" he said in a breathless whisper. "Look! The break-in
happened the night before we arrived at school! Remember when we were
on the boats crossing the lake for the first time? I saw somebody in a boat
over by the lake's edge!"
"Yeah," Ralph said slowly, narrowing his eyes, "I guess. The next day,
when the Americans arrived, you saw old Madame Delacroix and thought
it'd been her. I thought you were being a bit of a nutter."
James ignored him and went on, "I decided it couldn't have been her,
because the woman I'd seen on the lake had been a lot younger. Still, the
resemblance had been pretty scary. You know where I saw that boat,
though? It was over by where Zane and I found the island! The Grotto
Keep! I think that was Madame Delacroix, after all!"
"How?" Ralph asked simply. "She didn't arrive until the next day."
James explained to Ralph what Professor Franklyn had revealed about

Madame Delacroix at the dinner in the Alma Aleron's quarters. "It was her
wraith," he concluded. "She projected herself to the lake, to that place on
the island, using the ability Franklyn told us about. No wonder she was so
mad when he explained that she could project a younger version of herself
anywhere she wanted!"
Ralph seemed doubtful. "But why? What'd she want to be doing
floating around in a boat on the lake?"
"Don't you see?" James exclaimed, trying to keep his voice low.
"Whoever stole the Merlin throne would need to hide it in a place so secure
and secret that nobody would ever sense it. What better place to hide it than
right on the grounds of Hogwarts? Why create an ultra-powerful hiding
place when one already exists and you're going to be there anyway?
Madame Delacroix sent her wraith to the island that night to deliver the
stolen throne. She's hiding it right on the Hogwarts grounds, there on the
island. The Forbidden Forest is already so full of magic that the throne is
probably just lost in the background noise to the wizards at the school. The
Grotto Keep must be the hiding place!"
Ralph stared at James, biting his lips and wide-eyed. Finally he said,
"Wow, that's so creepy it makes sense. So you think she's working with
Jackson, then?"
"One way or another, they're in it together," James nodded.
"That stinks," Ralph said flatly. "I was really starting to like Professor
Jackson. But still, what's the big deal, really? I mean, Luna said that it's
impossible to bring Merlin back. She pretty much made it sound like
anyone who thinks they can do it is right loony. Once dead, always dead.
Why not let Delacroix and Jackson have their fantasies?"
James couldn't let it go. He shook his head. "I don't know about
Delacroix, but Professor Jackson's smarter than that. He teaches
Technomancy, doesn't he? He wouldn't fall for some crackpot scheme if he
didn't think it'd work. Besides, everybody keeps talking about it as if Merlin

had died. But Austramaddux doesn't say he died, does he? He just left the
world of men."
Ralph shrugged. "Whatever. Seems pretty dodgy to me." He flopped
backwards onto the cot.
"Come on, Ralph!" James said, tossing the old newspaper onto him.
"They're trying to bring Merlin back so they can start a war with the
Muggles! It's up to us to stop it!"
Ralph rolled onto his side and furrowed his brow at James. "What do
you mean? Your dad's Head Auror. If you're really worried about it, tell him
about it. It's his job to stop things like this, isn't it? What're we going to do,
anyway?"
James was exasperated. "We can try to stop them! Nobody will believe
us if we tell them now. We can try to capture the relics ourselves. If we do
that, then we'll at least have proof!"
Ralph continued to stare at James. After a minute he spoke. "Don't you
think you might be making a bit much of this? I mean, I understand wanting
to follow in your dad's footsteps and all, trying to save the world and be the
hero…"
"Shut up, Ralph," James said, suddenly angry. "You don't know what
you're talking about."
Ralph rolled onto his back. "Yeah, you're right. Sorry." James knew
that, after their earlier fight, Ralph was sensitive not to say anything too
argumentative.
"All right," James admitted, "I know why you're saying that. But this is
different. I'm really not just trying to be like Dad, all right? Maybe there
isn't any way to bring back Merlin. But still, these Progressive Element
types are up to no good. If we can prove that they're trying to start a war, we
can at least shut them down, can't we? If we can do that, I think we should.
Are you with me?"

Ralph grinned at James. "Of course. What's the fun of being a wizard
if we aren't on a quest to save the world?"
James rolled his eyes. "Shut up and go to sleep, Ralphinator."
But James couldn't sleep, not for a long time. He thought and thought
about everything he'd learned that night, the connections he and Ralph had
made. It made too much sense. It had to be true. And as much as he trusted
Luna, he couldn't quite accept that it would be impossible to bring Merlin
into the world somehow. He'd been the greatest wizard ever, hadn't he? He
was sure to have been capable of things that even the most powerful
wizards since would find impossible. James felt a strong unwillingness to
let it go. Still, part of him had been pricked by Ralph's suggestion that
James was simply looking for a way to be a hero, like his dad. Not because
he knew it wasn't true, but because he was afraid it might be. Finally,
several hours after the house had fallen silent, feeling confused and
exhausted, James drifted to sleep.

The day before the trip back to school, James was wandering the upper
rooms of Grimmauld Place, bored and restless. The last of the guests had
left the previous day, and Ralph had gone with Ted and Victoire to see
Harry's offices at the Ministry. James had been there loads of times, but his
primary reason for not accompanying them was that he wanted time to
think. After half an hour of lying on his bed and scribbling meaningless
notes and drawings on sheets of parchment, he'd given up and climbed the
stairs to the fourth floor. The top floors were silent and sleepy, with motes
of dust swimming lazily in the sunbeams that streamed through the frosted
windows. All the beds were made, the trunks mostly packed. Everyone
would be leaving Grimmauld Place in the next few days, reducing it once
again to temporary emptiness. Even Kreacher had been induced to
accompany the family back to the main house in Marble Arch for a couple

of months. The age and quiet of the house seemed to fill the rooms, foglike. James felt like a ghost.
He was passing the door to his parents' bedroom when he stopped. He
took a step backwards and peered in. The curtains were thrown wide open
and a hard beam of sunlight speared the air, laying a window-shaped
spotlight on Harry Potter's trunk. James glanced toward the hall stairs to be
sure no one was coming, and then tiptoed into the room. The trunk wasn't
completely closed. It didn't even have a lock. James lifted the lid slowly,
peering in. There, in the same place it was last time, was his dad's
Invisibility Cloak. It was folded tightly, packed into a corner, almost
covered by a pile of socks. James glanced again at the doorway, already
feeling guilty. He shouldn't do it, of course. Absolutely not. When his dad
found out, there'd be trouble. But then again, maybe his dad wouldn't
notice. Harry Potter seemed to carry the legendary cloak with him merely
by force of habit. James couldn't remember the last time his dad had
actually used it. It seemed wrong, somehow, that such a useful treasure was
not being put to use by someone. James reached in and touched it, then,
without allowing himself to think about it, he pulled the cloak out. He was
about to turn and flee back to his bedroom, when something else inside the
trunk captured his eye. He caught his breath as he looked, barely allowing
himself to believe what he was seeing. It had been packed beneath the
Invisibility Cloak, only revealed when James pulled it out. Few people
would even recognize what it was. At first glance, it was merely an old
parchment, folded many times. Like a map. James considered it. What
finally decided him was the thought of what Ted Lupin might say if he
knew that James had turned down such a golden opportunity.
James grabbed the Marauder's Map, clutching it and the Invisibility
Cloak to his chest, then carefully closed his dad's trunk. He ran down the
steps and back into his bedroom. By the time he'd hidden his contraband in
the bottom of his own trunk, he was feeling both excited and frightened in
equal measures. There was sure to be a row when he was found out, and
there was no question that he would be found out. Still, he knew that his
dad wouldn't be able to deny that he himself would have done the same
thing if he'd been in James' shoes. He was counting on that to temper things

when the time came. Until then, he'd put both items to great use. He didn't
know exactly how, yet, but there was no question that, with the Invisibility
Cloak and the Marauder's Map in his possession, he felt much better
equipped to tackle whatever adventures were sure to come.

The return trip to school was, like all post-holiday journeys,
melancholy and quiet. Back at Hogwarts the next week, James and Ralph
relayed to Zane everything Luna had told them and the connections they
had subsequently made. James was gratified that Zane immediately grasped
the implications.
"Maybe Madame Delacroix's put the Imperius Curse on Jackson?" he
asked in a low tone as the three boys huddled around a table in the corner of
the library.
"Yeah," Ralph agreed. "That'd make sense. She could just be using him
as a tool."
James shook his head. "Dad says the Imperius Curse is pretty easy to
cast, but it takes a lot of willpower to maintain it over a long period of time.
The whole school year is a long time. Also, a strong enough wizard can
learn to throw it off or resist it altogether. Jackson's too sharp to be an easy
target for something like that."
Ralph shrugged, and then leaned in, lowering his voice as a group of
students walked past. "Either way, I still think the whole thing's a wash. I
mean, wizards have been trying to get Merlin back for centuries, haven't
they? And the best wizards alive today believe that the whole thing is just a
sort of fairy tale. Professor Franklyn said in D.A.D.A. that the best records
show that Merlin ended up getting involved with something called 'the Lady
of the Lake' who took his powers and imprisoned him. Could just be part of
the legend, but still, supposedly he died around twelve hundred and was
buried just like anyone else."

Zane, who was always prone to the morbid imagination, widened his
eyes. "What if the plan is to bring him back as an Inferius? Maybe they're
just going to raise his body like some kind of zombie or something!"
James rolled his eyes. "Inferi are just animated corpses. Nobody would
say somebody had been brought back to life if they'd just been turned into
an Inferius. It'd be the same thing as just grabbing Merlin's skull and
working it like a puppet."
Zane held up his hand and mimed a mouth with his fingers, "Hey,
dudes. I'm Merlin. I just flew back from the dead, and boy, are my arms
tired?"
James stifled a laugh. "All right, so seriously, maybe the whole
Merlin's return thing is just some crazy legend. Jackson and Delacroix and
whoever they're working with in the Progressive Element believe in it, and
as long as they do, they'll keep at it. Even if the plan to bring back Merlin
doesn't work, they'll just figure something else out. If we can prove what
they are trying to do, though…"
"We can at least shut them down," Ralph nodded. "Right? Discredit
them with the wizarding world?"
"Yeah. And if we can do that, we take away a lot of their ability to
accomplish their goal."
Zane laced his fingers behind his head and leaned back. "So looks like
we need to get our hands on those relics. The throne is too protected for us
to get to, if it's on that island. We don't yet know who has the Merlin staff or
if anybody even knows where it is. That leaves the robe. At least we know
where it is, and as far as we know, Jackson's case won't try to bite our legs
off if we open it."
Ralph looked grim. "As far as we know."
"We need to be able to get it without Jackson knowing it's gone. If he

catches on, they'll have time to back off and cover their tracks," James said,
thinking hard. "I just wish we knew when they were planning on bringing
all the relics together. We have to get them before they try it."
"And where's this Hall of Elder's Crossing?" Ralph added.
"I figured it's got to be the island itself," James answered, raising his
eyebrows.
It was Zane's turn to shake his head. "Nah. Can't be. The sign on the
gate said that it was the Grotto Keep. At the bottom, it said something about
the Hall of Elder's Crossing, as if it was someplace else."
James dug in his backpack, finding the sheet of parchment he and Zane
had recreated the gate poem on. He spread it between them. In the light of
what Luna had told them about the relics, the poem made a lot more sense.
They read it, along with their scribbled notes, once again.
When by the light of Sulva bright -- sulva = moon
I found the Grotto Keep; -- means can only find the Keep by
moonlight
Before the night of time requite -- time requite? A certain date?
Did wake his languid sleep. -- Merlinus; sleeping? Rip Van
Winkle
Upon return the fretted dawn -- happens at nighttime?
With not a relic lossing; -- the three relics! Brought back together
Bygone a life, a new eon, -- a life from the past in a new time; the
legend's origin?

The Hall of Elder's Crossing. -- here? where?
"Yeah," James agreed reluctantly. "It makes it sound like the Hall of
Elder's Crossing is a different place entirely. Maybe the Grotto Keep
becomes the Hall of Elder's Crossing, somehow?"
Zane shrugged, unconvinced, "Meh."
"Doesn't make any difference, really," Ralph said after a minute's
thought. "It's just some old poem. Part of the legend."
"You didn't see the island," Zane said with feeling, then, turning to
James, "You think that whole Grotto Keep grew up there on the island in
response to the throne being there?"
"Could be," James nodded. "Whether the legend's true or not, that
thing's got to have some serious magic in it. Probably, Madame Delacroix
has added her own protective hexes and charms as well."
"Either way," Ralph insisted, "we need to get the robe from Jackson's
briefcase. Any ideas?"
All three boys merely looked at one another. Finally, James said, "I'll
work on a plan. We're going to need something to replace the robe with,
though."
"It was just a hunk of black fabric, you say?" Ralph said. "We can use
my dress cloak. My dad got me the entire wizard wardrobe when we were
in Diagon Alley before school started, and unless I have to go to
somebody's wedding or funeral, I can't imagine I'll need that thing. It's
bigger than my bedspread."
James considered it. "Sure, I guess it'll work as well as anything.
Although," he added, looking seriously at Ralph, "if they trace it back to
you…"

Ralph was silent for a moment, and then shrugged. "Ah, well. I've got
no shortage of enemies already. One or two more can't hurt much."
Considering the caliber of enemy Ralph might make with such a plot,
James thought it might hurt indeed, but he decided not to say so. He was
proud of Ralph for volunteering, and he felt that it showed that Ralph had a
great deal of confidence in James. James hoped he was worthy of it.
For the rest of the week, James had very little time to think about
Jackson's briefcase and the relic robe. As if he knew what they were up to,
Professor Jackson had piled on more homework than usual, assigning
nearly five chapters and a five hundred-word essay on Hechtor's Law of
Displaced Inertia. At the same time, Professor Franklyn had planned a
practical examination for late Friday afternoon, leaving only one day for
James, Zane, and Ralph to practice Disarming and Blocking Spells. Ralph
was forced to practice on a fencing dummy. After two hours, he finally
succeeded in casting an Expelliarmus spell without burning a crater in the
clothbound mannequin. Fortunately, Franklyn himself deigned to act as
Ralph's dueling partner during the practical. Ralph, slightly more confident
that Franklyn could deflect any errant spells than any of his classmates, was
able to concentrate a bit more on his wandwork. To no one's greater surprise
than his own, his Expelliarmus spell actually succeeded in blasting
Franklyn's wand from his hand. It vibrated in the ceiling like an arrow.
"Well done, Mr. Deedle," Franklyn said, a bit faintly, gazing up at his
wand. "Mr. Potter, would you be so kind as to retrieve my wand for me?
There's a ladder by the supply closet. That's a lad."
As James and Ralph were leaving the Defense Against the Dark Arts
practical, James noticed that he was once again being watched closely by
the mustachioed man in the painting of wizards gathered around the large
globe. For the past week, he had begun noticing similar looks from
paintings throughout the halls. Not all the paintings, by any means, but
enough to nag at his attention. The fat wizard in the corner of the table at
the painting of the poisoning of Peracles had seemed to listen intently as he,
Ralph, and Zane had discussed Jackson's briefcase in the library. A cavalry

rider in the painting of the Battle of Bourgenoigne had cantered his horse to
the corner of the painting to watch James out of sight as he'd walked to
Muggle Studies. Perhaps strangest of all, a portrait of a portrait in the
painting of the crowning of King Cyciphus had studied James unabashedly
from the wall of the Great Hall as he and Zane were eating breakfast.
James stopped on his way to the common room and approached the
painting of the wizards gathered around the globe. The wizard with the dark
mustache and spectacles peered at him with a hard, unreadable expression.
"What?" James demanded. "Do I have mustard on my tie or
something?"
The painted wizard's expression didn't change, and once again, James
found that there was something teasingly familiar about him.
"I know you, somehow," he said. "Who are you?"
"You're talking to a painting," Ralph pointed out.
"I talk to a painting every day to get into the common room," James
said without turning around.
"Yeah," Ralph nodded. "Still, it just seems a little weird to go around
starting arguments with random paintings in the halls."
"Where do I know you from?" James asked the painting, annoyed.
"Young man," another wizard in the painting spoke up, "that's hardly
the tone we are accustomed to being addressed in. Respect and deference, if
you please. We are your elders."
James ignored him, still studying the wizard with the mustache and
spectacles, who merely stared back at him silently. It occurred to James that
the wizard only seemed familiar because, somehow, he looked like the rest
of the paintings that had been watching him. But that was obviously

ridiculous, wasn't it? There was the fat man with the bald head, and the thin
wizard in the portrait of the portrait who'd had a great bushy blonde beard.
All of the paintings he'd caught watching him were utterly different. A few
had even been rather ugly women. Still, there was something about the eyes
and the shape of the face. James shook his head. He felt so close to figuring
it out, yet it remained beyond his grasp.
"Come on," Ralph finally said, grabbing James' arm. "Argue with the
paintings later. It's steak and kidney night."
That weekend, James gave his new Thunderstreak a test ride on the
Quidditch pitch. It was indeed an entirely different experience than riding
any of the house brooms. The Thunderstreak was noticeably faster, but
more importantly, it responded to James' direction with an accuracy and
ease that bordered on precognition. James would merely think that perhaps
he'd like to dip or turn, and suddenly, he'd find that it was happening. Ted
explained, rather breathlessly, that the Thunderstreak was equipped with an
option called 'Extra-Gestural Enhancement'.
"Basically," he said in an awed voice, "the broom can read its owner's
mind, just enough that it only needs the slightest touch to go where you
want it to go. It already knows what you want, so the moment you steer,
you're already there."
James offered to let Ted ride the broom, but Ted shook his head sadly.
"It's bonded with you. You're the owner. If anybody else tried to fly it, it'd
go all wonky. It's a drawback of the E.G.E. option. Or a plus, if you're
worried about people trying to steal it."
"Me wantee," Zane said in a low voice. "How much are they?"
"How much do you have?" Ted asked.
Zane thought for a moment. "Since I gave my last five to the house-elf
doorman, er, nothing."
"It costs more than that," Ted said, nodding.

On the way back to the castle, Zane told James that he'd had an idea
about how to swap the relic robe with Ralph's dress cloak.
"Meet me tonight in the Ravenclaw common room," he said. "Tell
Ralph to come, too, when you see him. I'll meet you both at the door at
nine."
That night, the Ravenclaw common room was unusually empty. Zane
explained that there was a wizard chess tournament going on in the Great
Hall. "Horace Birch is playing Professor Franklyn for the title of grand
wizard chess champion of the universe or something. Unofficial, I'm
thinking. Anyway, everybody's down there cheering him on. So have either
of you come up with a way to get the robe relic from Jackson yet?"
"I thought you said you had a plan?" James said.
"I do, but it's pretty iffy. I thought I'd listen to your ideas first, in case
they were better."
James shook his head. Ralph said, "I've been watching Professor
Jackson. He never lets that briefcase out of his sight."
"Actually," Zane said, settling into a chair by the fire, "that's not
entirely true."
Ralph and James sat on the sofa. James said, "Ralph's right. He even
takes it to Quidditch matches. He sets it between his feet at meals. He's got
it with him constantly."
"He does have it with him constantly," Zane agreed, "but there's one
situation where he isn't exactly keeping his eye on it."
"What?" James exclaimed. "Where?"
"Technomancy class," Zane answered simply. "Think about it. What's
he do all class long?"

James considered it a moment, then his eyes widened slightly. "He paces."
"Bingo," Zane said, pointing at James. "He puts his case on the floor
by his desk, careful as always, but then he paces. He circles the room ten
times a class, I bet. I've been watching. Takes him about a minute to make it
all the way around the room, which means that for about twenty seconds,
his back is turned to the briefcase."
"Wait," Ralph interjected. "You think we should try to make the switch
right in the middle of class?"
Zane shrugged. "Like I said, it isn't a great idea."
"How? There's twenty people in that class. We can't have them all in
on it."
"No," James agreed, "Philia Goyle's in that class. She's tight with
Tabitha Corsica, and it's possible, even likely, that they're in on the Merlin
plot. Philia may even know what's in the case. Nobody else can know what
we're up to."
"Doesn't mean it's impossible," Zane said.
Ralph frowned. "You think we're going to be able to get into Jackson's
case, swap the robes, and close it again, all while Jackson's back is turned
for twenty seconds, and without anyone else in the class catching on?"
"Hmm," James said, furrowing his brow. "Maybe we don't need to get
into the briefcase. What if we find another briefcase? We could stuff
Ralph's cloak in it and somehow just swap the cases while Jackson's back is
turned."
Ralph was still doubtful. "Jackson will be able to tell. He carries that
thing with him everywhere. He's probably memorized every scratch and
scuff on it."

"Actually," Zane said thoughtfully, "it's a pretty standard-looking
leather briefcase. I've seen others almost exactly like it right here at
Hogwarts. If we could find something close enough…" Zane suddenly sat
up and snapped his fingers. "Horace!"
"Horace?" James blinked. "Horace Birch? The Gremlin wizard chess
player? What's he got to do with anything?"
Zane shook his head excitedly. "Remember the Wocket? Horace used a
Visum-ineptio charm to make it look like a flying saucer. It's a Fool-the-Eye
charm! He said it just makes people see what they expect to see. If we
found a case that looked enough like Jackson's, then put a Visum-ineptio
charm on it, I bet that'd be enough to fool old Stonewall good! I mean, he'd
never expect anything to happen to his case during class, so the charm
should help him see the fake briefcase as his own. Right?"
Ralph thought about it and seemed to brighten. "That's so crazy, it just
might work."
"Yeah," James added, "but still, how do we swap the cases during class
without anyone else noticing?"
"We'd need a diversion," Zane said firmly.
Ralph grimaced. "You've watched too much telly."
James frowned, thinking of the Invisibility Cloak. "You know," he
said, "I think I have an idea." He told Zane and James about finding the
Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder's Map.
"You liberated them from your dad's trunk!" Zane grinned
delightedly. "You little miscreant! Ted will want to kiss you."
"He doesn't know, and I want to keep it that way, for now, at least,"
James said sternly. "But the point is, I think we can use the Invisibility

Cloak to make the switch without anyone knowing. It'll require all of us,
though."
"I'm not even in that class," Ralph said.
James nodded. "I know. What class do you have that period? First slot,
Wednesday?"
Ralph thought. "Um. Arithmancy. Ugh."
"Can you miss one?"
"I guess. Why?"
James explained his plan. Zane began to grin, but Ralph looked
uncomfortable. "I'm a terrible liar. They'll catch on straight off," he moaned.
"Can't Zane do my part? He's a natural."
James shook his head. "He's in the class with me. It'd be no good."
"You can do it, Ralph," Zane said heartily. "The trick is to look 'em
straight in the eye and never blink. I'll teach you everything I know. We'll
make a liar out of you yet."
That night, as James got ready for bed, he ran through the plan in his
mind. Now that he'd allowed himself to consider the impossibility of
Merlin's literal return, he felt rather silly for having been so certain of it.
Obviously, it really was just a mad delusion for power-crazed dark wizards.
Still, it was evident that Jackson and Delacroix, at least, believed in it
enough to try it. If James, Ralph, and Zane could capture the relic robe, that
would be enough proof to get his dad and his Aurors to search the island of
the Grotto Keep. They'd find the Merlin throne and the conspiracy would be
revealed. It'd be front-page news in the Daily Prophet, and Tabitha
Corsica's Progressive Element, which was surely part of the plot, would be
revealed as a campaign of lies and propaganda, intent only on war and
domination. With that vision in his head, James felt a stab of determination
to do everything he could to capture the relic robe.

As he evaluated the plan, however, he had his doubts. It was certainly
a rather convoluted scheme, with loads of variables. Much of it would
depend entirely on dumb luck. One minute, James was certain it would
work flawlessly, the next, he was sure it would be a ridiculous failure and
he, Ralph, and Zane would be caught. What would they say? Jackson would
know they were aware of his plan. Would that be enough to stop the plot?
James was, after all, the son of the Head Auror. James thought not. If James
and his friends were caught trying to steal the relic, Jackson would know
they hadn't yet told Harry Potter anything. Would Jackson and his coconspirators stoop to murder to keep their plans a secret? He could hardly
believe it, but then again, he had been amazed to discover Jackson's
involvement in such a terrible plan to begin with. No matter what, James
was sure, probably more than either Zane or Ralph, that the three of them
might be in great danger if their scheme failed.
For the first time, he considered telling his dad everything. He could
send Nobby with a letter, explaining everything they'd worked out so far. If
the three of them succeeded in their plan to capture the relic robe, then he'd
have proof to back up the letter. If they failed and were caught, at least
someone else would know about the Merlin plot. It was too late to write the
letter that night, but he felt reassured that it would be a good idea, and he
determined to do it first thing in the morning. Thinking that, he fell asleep.
The next morning, however, as he ran down the steps to breakfast, he forgot
all about it. In the light of a new day and a new week, he felt perfectly
confident that their plan would work. Failure was inconceivable. He was in
such high spirits about it that he barely noticed the pale wizard in the
painting of the Assumption of Saint Mungo watching him intently,
frowning and stone-faced.

12. Visum-Ineptio
The first hurdle James, Ralph, and Zane faced in capturing Jackson's
briefcase was simply finding a case similar enough to make the switch. It
was, as Zane had suggested, a fairly basic black leather case, rather more
like a doctor's bag than a briefcase. They studied it carefully at dinner
Monday evening, as it sat between the professor's black boots beneath the
faculty table. It had two wooden handles on the top, a hinged brass catch,
and was, indeed, rather beaten and scuffed. They were dismayed to discover
that it had a small, tarnished brass plate riveted to one side with 'T. H.
Jackson' engraved on it. While it was, in most respects, an almost entirely
unremarkable bit of luggage, the boys soon discovered that there was not, in
fact, one exactly like it to be easily found. Plenty of students and faculty
had leather cases and portfolios, but they were all either too narrow, or the
wrong color, or of a rather different size or shape. By Tuesday night, they

had still not found a case they could use to perform the switch. Ralph
suggested that they might have to wait until the next week to perform the
switch, but James was insistent that they keep trying.
"We don't know when they're planning to bring all the relics
together," he explained. "If we wait too long, they'll try it and then we won't
have access to any of the relics at all. They'll figure out they don't work, and
then hide them or destroy them."
Ralph and Zane agreed, although it didn't get them any closer to
finding an appropriate case to use for the switch. Then, Wednesday
morning, the day of Technomancy class, Ralph came to the breakfast table
with a manic glint in his eye. He plopped down across from Zane and James
and stared at them.
"What?" James asked.
"I think I've found a case we can use."
James' mouth dropped open and Zane audibly gulped the coffee he'd
been sipping.
"What? Where?" James asked in a harsh whisper. He had decided they
were going to have to wait after all, and had been simultaneously worried
and relieved. Now adrenaline shot through him. The rather wide-eyed
paleness of Ralph's face indicated he was feeling the same thing.
"You know my friend, Rufus Burton?"
James nodded. "Yeah, another first-year Slytherin. Greasy-haired kid,
right?"
"Yeah. Well, he collects rocks and stuff. Calls himself a 'rock-hound'.
Has a whole bunch of polished little stones arranged on a shelf by his bed:
crystals and quartzes and moon-sapphires and all that. I listened to him
talking about it last night for almost an hour. Well, he brought all his rock
hunting tools along with him to school, of course. He's got a little hammer

that's a pick on one side, and a bunch of little scrapers and brushes and
loads of these little cloths and polishing solutions."
"All right, all right," Zane said. "We get the picture. Guy's a geek with
tools. I'm spellbound. What's the point?"
"Well," Ralph said, unperturbed, "he carries all his tools and gear
around in a case. He had it out on his bed last night…"
"And it's the right size and shape?" James prompted.
Ralph nodded, still wide-eyed. "It's almost perfect. Even has a little
plaque on the side! It has the name of the manufacturer on it, but it's in the
same place as the little plate on Jackson's case. The color's different, and the
handles are ivory, but other than that…"
"So how do we get it?" James asked breathlessly.
"I've already got it," Ralph answered, seeming rather amazed at
himself. "I told him I wanted a bag to carry my books and parchments in.
Told him my backpack didn't feel very, you know, Slytherin. He said he
knew just what I meant. He said he'd gotten a new toolcase for Christmas,
so I could have his old one. That's why he had it out: he was taking
everything out of the old one to put into his new case, which is bigger and
has a hard dragonskin cover. Watertight, he told me." Ralph was beginning
to ramble.
"He just said you could have it?" Zane asked incredulously.
"Yeah! I've got to tell you, it wigged me out a bit. I mean, isn't that just
a little too… I don't know…"
"A little too much of a coincidence," Zane nodded.
James grew thoughtfully determined. "Where's the case now?"

Ralph looked a little startled. "I brought it down with me, but I hid it in
one of the cubbyholes under the stairs. I didn't want anyone to see me with
it in here. Just in case."
"Good thinking. Come on," James said, getting up.
"You still want to go through with it?" Ralph asked, following
reluctantly. "I mean, we were going to wait until next week anyway…"
"That was only because we didn't have a choice."
"Well," Ralph muttered, "there's always a choice. I mean, we don't
have to do it this way, do we? Couldn't one of us just hide under the
Invisibility Cloak and make the switch when Jackson's not looking?"
Zane shook his head. "No way. There's too little room in there. Jackson
would run you over doing one of his laps. If we're going to do it, this is the
only way."
"Look, I think we're meant to do this," James said, turning to face
Ralph and Zane when they got to the doorway. "If there is such a thing as
destiny, then that's what put that case in your hands last night, Ralph. We
can't miss this opportunity. It'd be like… like spitting in destiny's face."
Ralph blinked, trying to envision that. Zane scowled thoughtfully.
"Sounds serious."
"You two still with me?" James asked. Both other boys nodded.
The case was still in the cubbyhole beneath the main staircase, and it
was as similar to Jackson's as Ralph had described. It was a ruddy red color,
and much more scuffed from having been dragged through the dirt and
rocks, but it was exactly the same size and shape, with a matching brass
catch in the center. Ralph had already stuffed his dress cloak into it, and
when James opened it to check, it looked almost exactly the way the cloth

inside Jackson's case had looked when it had come open that day in
Franklyn's classroom.
"Let's take it to the boys' bathroom in the upper cellars," James said,
preceding the other two down the staircase. "It's just down the hall from
Technomancy. Do you need anything special, Zane?"
"Just my wand and my notes," Zane answered. Horace Birch had been
more than happy to explain the Visum-ineptio charm to Zane, but there'd
been no opportunity for him to practice. Further, the charm would only
work--if it worked at all--on anyone who didn't know the charm was in
place. The result was that neither James, Ralph, nor Zane would know if the
charm was working. They'd just have to trust Zane's spellwork until the
switch had been accomplished and Jackson picked up the fake case. Only
then, one way or another, would the effectiveness of the charm be shown.
In the boys' bathroom, James plopped the case on the edge of the sink.
Zane dug in his backpack for his wand and the bit of parchment he'd
scribbled the Visum-ineptio incantation on. He handed the parchment to
Ralph.
"Hold it up so I can see it," he instructed nervously. His hand was
shaking visibly as he pointed his wand at the case. After a moment, he
dropped his arm again. "This is all screwy. Ralph's the wand master. Can't
he try it?"
"Horace taught it to you," James said impatiently. "It's too late to show
Ralph the wand motions. Class is in fifteen minutes."
"Yeah," Zane protested, "but what if I can't get it to work? If Ralph
gets it right, you know it'd be good enough to fool anybody."
"And if he gets it wrong," James insisted, "we'll be picking bits of
leather off the walls for the next hour."
"I'm standing right here, remember?" Ralph said.

James ignored him. "You have to, Zane. You can do it. Just give it a go."
Zane took a deep breath, and then raised his wand again, pointing it at
the bag. He looked at the parchment as Ralph held it up. Then, in a low,
singsong voice he spoke.
"Light immortal speeds the eye, for understanding's vanity. Discordia,
the fool's ally, make expectation's guarantee."
Zane flicked his wand in three small circles, and then tapped the top of
the case with it. There was a popping sound and a very faint ring of light
appeared, emanating from the wand's tip. The ring grew, slipping down
over the case. It grew fainter until it vanished. Zane let out his breath.
"Did it work?" Ralph asked.
"It must have," James said. "It looks the same to us, of course, but
something happened, didn't it? The charm must be in place."
"I hope so," Zane said. "Come on, we have to get to the classroom
before anybody else gets there."
They ran through the corridor, Zane and James watching for Professor
Jackson and Ralph carrying the fake case with his winter coat draped over
it.
"This looks stupid," Ralph rasped. "I look about as casual as Grawp in a
tutu."
James shushed him. "It doesn't matter, we're almost there."
They stopped outside the door to the Technomancy classroom. Zane
peered in, then turned back to James and Ralph.
"Plan B," he said under his breath. "There's somebody in there. A

Hufflepuff. Can't remember his name."
James leaned around the corner of the door. It was a boy he vaguely
recognized from Muggle Studies class. His name was Terrence and he
glanced up as James was looking.
"Hey, Terrence," James called, grinning. He sauntered into the room.
Behind him, he heard Ralph and Zane whispering. He tried to drown out
their voices. "So how was your holiday? Travel much?"
"I guess," Terrence mumbled.
This is going to be harder than expected, James thought. "So where did
you go? I took the train to London. Saw the family and everybody. Had
loads of fun. You go anywhere fun?"
Terrence turned in his seat. "Went down to Cork with my mum. It
rained most of the trip. Saw a flute concert."
James nodded encouragingly. Fortunately, Terrence was seated
halfway from the front, turned around toward James. Out of the corner of
his eye, James saw Zane near Jackson's desk, positioning the fake case.
Terrence started to turn back toward the front of the room.
"A flute concert!" James blurted loudly. "Cool!"
Terrence turned back. "No," he said, "it wasn't."
Zane stood up, giving James the all-clear signal. James saw him and
sighed with relief. "Oh. Well, sorry to hear it," he said, backing away from
Terrence. "Anyway. See you around."
Zane and James took their planned seats in the front row. It was a
small classroom and Jackson's desk was only a couple of feet away. James
scanned the front of the room, pleased to see that nothing seemed disturbed.
He waited until a few more students came in, laughing and talking, and then
whispered to Zane. "Where is it?"

"It's in that little corner by the chalkboard. I left the cloak folded a
little so it doesn't drape onto the floor. I just hope old Stonewall doesn't trip
over it when he goes behind his desk."
James looked into the corner that Zane indicated. It was just a shallow
alcove formed where the closet next door butted into the room. It was
unlikely that Jackson would venture there, but not impossible.
"Sometimes, he doesn't even go behind his desk all class," James
whispered. Zane gave a little lift and drop of the shoulders, as if to say
here's hoping.
A few minutes later, Professor Jackson strode into the room, carrying
his ever-present leather bag. James and Zane couldn't help watching intently
as he draped his cloak over the desk and settled his briefcase into its
accustomed space on the floor next to his desk.
"Greetings, class," Jackson said briskly. "I trust you all had an
instructive holiday. One can only hope you haven't forgotten everything we
worked so hard to instill in your heads prior to the break. Which reminds
me. Please hand your essays to the left and then to the front. Mr. Walker, I
will collect them from you once you have them all."
Zane nodded, his eyes bulging a bit. Both James and Zane had their
wands slipped up their sleeves. If Jackson noticed, they'd just say they were
carrying them that way in honor of their favorite Technomancy teacher,
since Jackson himself carried his in a small sheath sewn into his sleeve.
Thankfully, Jackson seemed a bit preoccupied.
"I will be grading your essays tonight, as usual. Until then, let us take a
sneak peek, as it were, into your cumulative understanding of the subject.
Mr. Hollis, please favor us with a short definition of Hechtor's Law of
Displaced Inertia, if you please."
Hollis, a red-cheeked first-year Ravenclaw, cleared his throat and
began to offer his explanation. James barely heard him. He looked down at

Jackson's case, sitting tantalizingly only a few feet away. James thought he
could probably kick it if he wished to. His heart pounded and he was filled
with a horrible, icy certainty that the plan couldn't possibly work. It had
been ridiculously foolhardy to think they could pull such a caper under the
prow-nose of Professor Jackson. And yet he knew they had to try. He felt
vaguely sick with anxiety. Jackson began to pace.
"Unnecessarily verbose, Mr. Hollis, but relatively accurate. Miss
Morganstern, can you elaborate a bit regarding the transference of inertia
between objects of different densities?"
"Well, different densities respond to inertia differently, based on the
proximity of their atoms," Petra answered. "A ball of lead will be launched
in a single direction. A ball of, say, marshmallow will merely explode."
Jackson nodded. "Is there a technomancic workaround for this?
Anyone? Miss Goyle?"
Philia Goyle lowered her hand. "A Binding Spell coupled with the
Inertia-Transference Spell will keep even low-density substances intact, sir.
This has the added benefit that low-density projectiles will travel much
farther and faster on a given factor of inertia than a higher-density
projectile, such as Miss Morganstern's lead ball."
"True, Miss Goyle, but not necessarily beneficial," Jackson smiled
humorlessly. "A feather shot out of a cannon still won't hurt."
The class laughed a little at that. Jackson was just beginning his
second circuit of the room. Then, suddenly, Ralph was at the door.
"Excuse be," he said in a strangely gurgly voice. Everyone in the class
turned except James and Ralph. "I'b sorry. I dseem to have a dosebleed."
Ralph's nose was, indeed, bubbling blood at an alarming rate. He held his
finger beneath it, and it was coated and slimy with blood. There was a
chorus of oohs and ahhs from the class, some amused and some disgusted.
Zane wasted no time. As soon as he heard Ralph and saw that Jackson

was turned away, heading up the right side of the classroom, he whipped his
wand from his sleeve.
"Wingardium Leviosa!" he whispered as quietly but as forcefully as he
could. The Invisibility Cloak became visible the moment it whipped up,
floating off the fake briefcase in the corner. Zane held it there as James
fumbled his own wand out. Behind them, they heard Jackson speaking to
Ralph.
"Good heavens, boy, hold still."
"I'b sorry," Ralph stammered. "I meant to get a cough lozenge and I ate
one of thode Weadely Dosebleed Dougats instead. I have to get to the
hodpital wing, I thingk."
James pointed his wand at the fake briefcase and whispered the
Levitation Charm. The case was much heavier than anything James had
levitated before, and he wasn't very good at it under the best of
circumstances. The case scuttled on the floor, dragging by a corner. He
moved it as close to the real case as possible, knocking the real case aside
and partially under the desk. He gasped, and then caught his breath. Behind
him, the students were laughing and making disgusted noises.
"Good grief, you don't need the hospital wing," Jackson said,
becoming annoyed. "Just stand still and move your finger."
Ralph began to sway on his feet. "I thingk I'b a hemophebian!" he
yelled. That had been Zane's idea.
"You're not a hemophiliac," Jackson growled. "Now for the last time,
hold still!"
James flicked his wand, trying to move the real case around the fake
one. It was imperative that he move it into the corner and hide it under the
Invisibility Cloak Zane was still levitating. The real case was stuck,
however, wedged under a corner of the desk. James concentrated mightily.
The briefcase levitated under the desk, pushing the corner of the desk up

with it. James grimaced, lowering his wand, and both the case and the desk
clunked to the floor. Nobody seemed to notice. Zane was looking at James,
wild-eyed. James made a grimace of helplessness. Desperately, Zane made
to lower the Invisibility Cloak onto the real case where it was, wedged
under the desk. Somehow, however, the cloak had also become snagged,
caught on a coat-hook next to the chalkboard. Nothing was going as
planned. If anyone turned around now, there would be no hope of covering
their tracks. James couldn't resist glancing around. Ralph's nose was still
pattering blood. Jackson was half squatted in front of him, one hand on
Ralph's arm, trying to pull Ralph's finger away from his nose, the other
holding the hickory wand at the ready. The entire class was watching in
various shades of amusement and revulsion.
"Drat it, boy, you're making a mess. Move your finger, I tell you,"
Jackson exclaimed.
James tried to free the real briefcase by working it back and forth with
his wand. He was sweating and his wand hand was slick. The case finally
came free just as James heard Jackson say "Artemisae."
"Oh!" Ralph said, rather unnecessarily loudly. "There, yes, that's much
better."
"It'd have been better a minute ago if you'd have listened to me,"
Jackson said crossly, poking his wand back into his sleeve. The scene was
over. Zane gave a final yank on his wand. The Invisibility Cloak popped
loose from the coat-hook and dropped to the floor in a heap, which
promptly vanished. James had no time to hide the briefcase. He sensed the
class turning back toward the front of the room.
"Please go and wash yourself, young man," Jackson was saying, his
voice becoming louder as he dismissed Ralph and turned toward the front
of the room. "You're an awful sight. People will think you've been mauled
by a quintaped." Under his breath, he added, "Nosebleed Nougat…"
Desperately, James stashed his wand back up his sleeve. Zane, in an
act of pure split-second inspiration, shot his legs forward from underneath

the desk. He grasped the real briefcase between his ankles, then yanked it
back beneath his own desk. James heard the scuffling as Zane tried to stuff
the case beneath his chair using only his feet. Jackson stopped next to Zane
and the room became very quiet.
James tried not to look up. He had the strongest sensation that the
professor was looking down at him. Finally, helplessly, he raised his eyes.
Jackson was indeed looking down the length of his nose, his gaze moving
thoughtfully between Zane and James. James' stomach plummeted. Finally,
after what felt like an eternity, Jackson continued to the front of the room.
"Honestly," he said to the class in general, "the lengths some of you
will go to skip a class. It astounds someone even as cynical as myself. At
any rate, where were we, then? Ah yes…"
The class wore on. James refused to meet Jackson's eyes. His only
hope was to get out of the classroom as quickly as possible. There was no
way to collect either the real briefcase or the Invisibility Cloak while
Jackson was still there. Just possibly, however, Jackson wouldn't see his
own case stuffed beneath Zane's chair. Everything rested, of course, on the
effectiveness of Zane's Visum-ineptio charm. James looked down at the
false briefcase, sitting on the floor approximately where the real one had
been. To his eye, it looked completely fake, its leather a different color and
its brass plate reading 'HIRAM & BLATTWOTT'S LEATHERS, DIAGON
ALLEY, LONDON', instead of 'T. H. Jackson'. Jackson had obviously
sensed something. But if the charm worked, there was still the slightest
chance they could pull it off.
Class finally concluded. James jumped up, herding Zane ahead of
him. Zane shot him a look of pure consternation, his eyes darting toward the
base of his chair, but James pushed him onward, shaking his head minutely.
The class pressed toward the door, and James and Zane, having been seated
in the front row, were stuck at the rear of the small throng. James was
terrified to look back. Finally, the wall of shoulders and backpacks broke
apart and James and Zane tumbled into the hallway.

"What're we going to do?" Zane whispered frantically as they trotted
down the corridor.
"We'll come back later," James said, struggling to keep his voice low
and calm. "Maybe he won't see anything. He was packing up the essays
when we left. If we just hang back here around the corner, we can watch--"
"Mr. Potter?" a voice said imperiously from behind them. "Mr.
Walker?"
The two boys stopped in their tracks. They turned very slowly.
Professor Jackson was leaning out of the door of the Technomancy
classroom. "I believe you two may have left something in my classroom.
Would you care to come collect it?"
Neither answered. They walked heavily back the way they had come.
Jackson disappeared into the classroom again and was waiting behind the
front desk when they got there.
"Come closer, boys," Jackson said in a breezy voice. "Just right here,
in front of the desk, if you please." Placed on the desk in front of Jackson
were both the real and fake briefcases. When James and Zane got to the
front of the desk, Jackson spoke again, this time in a low, cold voice.
"I don't know who's been telling you stories about what I keep in my
attaché, but I can assure the both of you that yours is neither the first nor
even the most creative attempt to find out for certain." James raised his
eyebrows in surprise and Jackson nodded at him. "Yes, I have heard the
tales that some of my students have invented. Stories of horrible dormant
beasts, or doomsday weapons, or keys to alternate dimensions, each more
terrible and mind-boggling than the last. Let me assure you, though, my
terminally curious, little friends…" Here, Jackson leaned over his desk,
bringing his nose less than a foot from the two boys' faces. He lowered his
voice further and spoke very clearly, "That which I keep hidden in my
attaché is far, far worse than even your fevered imaginings can contrive.
This is not a joke. I am not making idle threats. If you attempt to meddle

with my affairs again, you will likely not live to regret it. Am I making
myself perfectly clear?"
James and Zane nodded, speechless. Jackson continued to stare at
them, breathing through his nose in obvious fury. "Fifty points from
Gryffindor and fifty points from Ravenclaw. I'd give you both detentions,
except that that might lead to questions about this case of mine that I do not
wish to answer. Therefore, let me finish by saying, my young friends, that
even if you do not so much as look at my attaché ever again, I can still
choose to make your lives extremely… interesting. Please do bear that in
mind. Now," he stood back, lowering his eyes, "take this pathetic little ruse
and be gone."
With palpable disgust, Jackson shoved his bag at them with the back
of his hand. The fake bag remained sitting in front of him. He laced the
knuckly fingers of his right hand through the ivory handles and hefted it.
The brass plate that read 'HIRAM & BLATTWOTT'S LEATHERS,
DIAGON ALLEY, LONDON' glinted dully as Jackson moved around the
desk. Neither James nor Zane could quite bring themselves to touch the
case in front of them.
"Well?" Jackson demanded, raising his voice. "Take that thing and be
gone!"
"Y-yes, sir," Zane stammered, grabbing the professor's bag and pulling
it off the desk. He and James turned and fled.
Three corridors later, they stopped running. They stood in the middle
of an empty hall and looked at the bag Jackson had insisted they take. There
was no question about it. It was the professor's own black leather briefcase.
The name plate shone clearly, 'T. H. Jackson'. James began to grasp that
somehow, amazingly, they had succeeded. They had captured the robe of
Merlin.
"It was the Visum-ineptio charm," Zane breathed, glancing up at
James. "It had to be. Jackson knew we were up to something, but he didn't
expect that!"

James was completely bewildered. "How, though? He had both bags right in
front of him!"
"Well, it's pretty simple, really. Jackson assumed we were trying to
swap the cases, but that we hadn't gotten around to it yet. He found the case
under my chair and believed it was the fake one. The Visumineptio charm
on the fake briefcase worked on both briefcases, letting him see what he
expected to see. That's how it preserved the illusion that the fake case was
the real one!"
Understanding dawned on James. "The Fool-the-Eye Charm extended
to the real briefcase, making it look like the fake one, since that's what
Jackson expected! That's brilliant!" James clapped Zane on the shoulder.
"Nice one, you goon! And you doubted yourself!"
Zane looked uncharacteristically humble. He grinned. "Come on, let's
go find Ralph and make sure he's okay. You really think he needed to eat
two of those Nosebleed Nougats?"
"You're the one that said we needed a diversion."
James stuffed Jackson's briefcase under his robe, clutching it under his
arm, and the two boys ran to find Ralph, stopping only long enough to
collect the Invisibility Cloak from the floor of the empty Technomancy
classroom.
Five minutes later, the three boys clambered up to the Gryffindor
common room, rushing to hide Jackson's briefcase before their next class.
James buried it in the bottom of his trunk, then Zane produced his wand.
"Just learned this new spell from Gennifer," he explained. "It's a
special kind of Locking Spell."
"Wait," James stopped Zane before he could cast the spell. "How will I
get it open again?"

"Oh. Well, I don't know, to tell you the truth. It's the counter-spell to
Alohomora. I wouldn't think it'd work against the owner of the trunk,
though. Just anybody else. Spells are smart that way, aren't they?"
"Here," Ralph said, crossing the room. He opened and closed the
window, then stood back. "Try it on the window latch. You don't need that
open, anyway. It's dead cold out there."
Zane shrugged, and then pointed his wand at the window.
"Colloportus." The window lock clacked shut.
"Well, it works, all right," Ralph observed. "Now try to open it."
Zane, wand still raised, said, "Alohomora." The lock jiggled once, but
remained locked. Zane pocketed his wand. "You try it, James. It's your
window, isn't it?"
James used the same spell on the window lock. The lock unhinged
neatly and the window swung open.
"See?" Zane grinned. "Spells are smart. I bet old Stonewall could tell
us how that works, but I'm not going to be asking him any more questions,
I'll tell you that."
James closed his trunk with Jackson's case inside and Zane performed the
Locking Spell on it.
On the way back down to their classrooms, Ralph asked, "Won't
somebody else notice that Jackson's carrying a different briefcase? What if
one of the other teachers asks him about it?"
"Not going to happen, Ralphinator," Zane said confidently. "He's been
carrying that thing long enough that everyone expects to see him with it. As
long as they expect to see his case in his hand, the Visumineptio charm will
make sure that is what they see. We're the only ones that'll see that it's your
buddy's old rock-hound bag."

Ralph still seemed worried. "Will the charm wear off over time? Or
will it work as long as people think that the fake case is the real one?"
Neither James nor Zane knew the answer to that. "We just have to
hope it lasts long enough," James said.

13. Revelation of the Robe
That evening after dinner, the three boys ran up to the Gryffindor
sleeping quarters again, pausing only when James noticed the staring
woman in the background of a painting of some maidens milking a pair of
ridiculously plump cows. He berated the tall and ugly woman, who was
dressed like a nun, demanding to know what she was looking at. After half
a minute, Zane and Ralph got impatient and each grabbed one of James'
elbows, dragging him away. In the sleeping quarters, they clustered around
James' trunk while James unlocked it and pulled out Jackson's case. He set
it on the edge of his bed and the three of them stared at it.
"Do we have to open it?" Ralph asked.
James nodded. "We have to know we have the robe, don't we? It's been
driving me crazy all day. What if I was wrong and the thing in there is just
some of Jackson's laundry? I can't help thinking that he's the sort that'd

carry around a totally meaningless briefcase just to get people talking about
it. You should've seen how he was this morning when he thought he'd
caught Zane and me. He was right mad."
Zane plopped onto the bed. "What if we can't even open it?"
"Can't be that much of a lock if it popped open that day in D.A.D.A,"
James reasoned.
Ralph stood back, giving James room. "Let's get it over with then. Try
and open it."
James approached the case and tried the lock. He'd expected it not to
work and was prepared to try the assortment of Opening and Unlocking
Spells the three had collected. Instead, the brass catch on top of the case
popped open easily. So easily, in fact, that James was momentarily sure it
had clicked open a split second before he'd actually touched it. He froze, but
neither of the other two boys seemed to have noticed.
"Well?" Ralph whispered. Zane leaned over the case. The mouth of it
had come open slightly.
"Can't see anything in there," Zane said. "It's too dark. Open the rotten
thing, James. It's yours more than either of ours."
James touched the case, grasped the handles, and used them to pull it
open. He could see the folds of black cloth. A vague, musty smell wafted
from the open case. James thought it smelled like the inside of a jack-o'lantern a week after Halloween. He remembered Luna saying that the robe
had once been used to cover the body of a dead king and he shuddered.
Zane's voice was low and slightly hoarse. "Is that it? I can't tell what it
is."
"Don't," Ralph warned, but James had already reached into the case.
He pulled the robe out. The cloth unfolded smoothly, spotlessly black and
clean. There seemed to be acres of it. Ralph backed further away as James

let the robe pool on the floor at his feet. The last of it came out of the case
and James realized he was holding the hood of it. It was a large hood, with
golden braids at the throat.
Zane nodded, his face pale and serious. "That's it, no doubt. What are
we gonna do with it?"
"Nothing," Ralph answered firmly. "Stick it back in the case, James.
That thing's scary. You can feel the magic of it, can't you? I bet Jackson put
some kind of Shield Charm or something on the case to contain it.
Otherwise, somebody would've felt it. Go on, put it away. I don't want to
touch it."
"Hold on," James said vaguely. He could indeed feel the magic of the
cloak, just as Ralph had said, but it didn't feel scary. It was powerful, but
curious. The smell of the robe had changed as James pulled it out. What had
at first smelled faintly rotten now smelled merely earthy, like fallen leaves
and wet moss, wild, even exciting. Holding the robe in his hands, James had
the most unusual sensation. It was as if he could feel, in the deepest pit of
his being, the very air in the room, filling the space like water, streaming
through cracks in the frame of the window, cold, like ice-blue vapor. The
sensation expanded and he sensed the wind moving around the turret that
housed the sleeping quarters. It was alive, swirling over the conical roof,
channeling into missing shingles and exposed rafters. James faintly
remembered children's stories about how Merlin was a master of nature,
how he felt it and used it, and how it obeyed his whims. James knew he was
tapping into that power somehow, as if it was embedded in the very fabric
of the relic robe. The sensation grew and spiraled. Now James felt the
creatures of the deepening evening: the pattering heartbeats of mice in the
attics, the blood-purple world of the bats in the forest, the dreaming haze of
a hibernating bear, even the dormant life of the trees and grass, their roots
like hands clutched in the earth, clinging to life in the dead of winter.
James knew what he was doing, but didn't seem to be operating his
own arms. He raised the hood, turning himself into it. The robe slid over his
shoulders, and just as the hood settled over his head, hiding his eyes, James

heard the alarmed and warning cries of Zane and Ralph. They were fading,
as if down a long, sleepy tunnel. They were gone.
He was walking. Leaves crunched under his feet, which were large and
shoeless, tough with calluses. He breathed in, filling his lungs, and his chest
expanded like a barrel. Big, he was. Tall, with muscled arms that felt like
coiled pythons and legs as thick and sturdy as tree trunks. The earth was
quiet around him, but alive. He felt it through the soles of his feet when he
walked. The vibrancy of the forest streamed into him, strengthening him.
But there was less of it than there should be. The world had changed, and
was still changing. It was being tamed, losing its feral wildness and
strength. Alongside it, his power was dimming as well. He was still
unmatched, but there were blind spots in his communion with the earth, and
those blind spots were growing, shutting him off bit by bit, reducing him.
The realms of men were expanding, scouring the earth, parsing it into
meaningless plots and fields, breaking up the magic polarities of the
wilderness. It angered him. He had moved among the growing kingdoms of
men, advised and assisted them, always for a price, but he hadn't foreseen
this result. His magical brothers and sisters were no help. Their magic was
different than his. That which made him so powerful, his connection to the
earth, was also becoming his only weakness. In a cold rage, he walked. As
he passed, the trees spoke to him, but even the woodsy voices of the naiads
and the dryads was dimming. Their echo was confused and broken, divided.
Ahead of him, revealed only in the moonlight, a clearing opened,
surrounding a stony depression in the earth. He descended into the center of
the depression and looked up. The glittering night sky poured into the bowlshaped clearing, painting everything bone white. His shadow pooled
beneath him as if it were noonday. There was no place for him in this world
anymore. He would leave the society of men. But he would return when
things were different, when circumstances had changed, when the world
was again ripe for his power. Then he would reawaken the earth, revive the
trees and their spirits, refresh their power, and his with it. Then would be a
time of reckoning. It might be decades, or even centuries. It might even be
eternity. It didn't matter. He could stay in this time no longer.
There was a noise, a scuffle of clumsy footsteps nearby. Someone else

was there, in the clearing with him: someone he hated, but whom he
needed. He spoke to this person, and as he did, the world began to dim, to
darken, to fade.
"Instruct those that follow. Keep my vestments, station, and talisman at
the ready. I will await. At the Hall of Elders' Crossing, when my time of
returning is come, assemble them again and I will know. I have chosen you
to safeguard this mission, Austramaddux, for as my last apprentice, your
soul is in my hand. You are bound to this task until it is complete. Vow to
me your oath."
Out of the descending darkness, the voice spoke only once. "It is my
will and my honor, Master."
There was no answer. He was gone. His robes dropped to the earth,
empty. His staff balanced for a moment, then fell forward and was caught in
an eerily white hand, the hand of Austramaddux, before it could hit the
rocky ground. Then even that scene vanished. The darkness compressed to
a dwindling point. The universe leapt up, monstrous and spinning, and there
was only oblivion.
James forced his eyes open and gasped. His lungs felt flattened, as if
he hadn't had breath in them for several minutes. Hands grasped him,
yanking the hood back and pulling the robe off his shoulders. Weakness
stole over James and he began to collapse. Zane and Ralph caught him
awkwardly and heaved him onto his bed.
"What happened?" James asked, still dragging in great gulps of air.
"You tell us!" Ralph said, his voice high and frightened.
Zane was stuffing the robe roughly back into the briefcase. "You put
this crazy thing on and then pop! Off you went. Not what I'd have called a
wise choice, you know."
"I blacked out?" James asked, recovering enough to get his elbows

beneath him.
Ralph said, "Blacked out nothing. You up and disappeared. Poof."
"It's true," Zane nodded, seeing James stunned expression. "You were
clean gone for three or four minutes. Then he showed up," Zane indicated
the corner behind James' bed with a worried nod. James turned and there
was the semi-transparent form of Cedric Diggory. The ghost looked down
at him, then smiled and shrugged. Cedric seemed rather more solid than the
last few times James had seen him.
Zane went on, "He just appeared through the wall, as if he had come
looking for you. Ralph here shrieked like--well, I'd say like he'd just seen a
ghost, but considering we have breakfast with ghosts most mornings and a
History class with one every Tuesday, the phrase doesn't seem all that
impressive anymore."
Ralph spoke up. "He took one look at us, then the briefcase, and then
he just, sort of, thinned out. Next thing we know, you're back, just where'd
you been, looking white as a statue."
James turned back to the ghost of Cedric. "What did you do?"
Cedric opened his mouth to speak, tentatively and carefully. As if from
a long way off, his voice seeped into the room. James couldn't tell if he was
hearing it with his ears or his mind.
You were in danger. I was sent. I saw what was happening when I got here.
"What was it?" James asked. The experience was murky in his
memory, but he sensed he'd remember more when the magic of it wore off.
A Threshold Marker. A powerful bit of magic. It opens a dimensional
gateway, designed to communicate a message or a secret over great time or
distance. But its strength is careless. It almost swallowed you up.

James knew that was true. He had felt it. In the end, the darkness had
been consuming, seamless. He swallowed past a hard lump in his throat and
asked, "How did I get back?"
I found you, Cedric said simply. I dipped into the ether, where I have
spent so much time since my death. You were there, but you were far-off.
You were going. I chased you and returned with you.
"Cedric," James said, feeling stupid for putting on the robe, and
terrified at what had almost happened. "Thanks for bringing me back."
I owed you that. I owed your father that. He brought me back, once.
"Hey," James said suddenly, brightening. "You can talk now!"
Cedric smiled, and it was the first genuine smile James had seen on the
ghostly face. I feel… different. Stronger. More… here, somehow.
"Wait," Ralph said, raising a hand. "This is the ghost you told us about,
isn't it? The one that chased the intruder off the grounds a few months ago?"
"Oh, yeah," James said. "Zane and Ralph, this is Cedric Diggory.
Cedric, these are my friends. So what do you think is happening to you?
What's making you more here?"
Cedric shrugged again. For what seemed like a long time, I felt like I
was in a sort of dream. I moved through the castle, but it was empty. I never
got hungry, or thirsty, or cold, or needed to rest. I knew I was dead, but that
was all. Everything was dark and silent, and there didn't seem to be any
days or seasons. No passage of time at all. Then things began to happen.
Cedric turned and sat on the bed, making no mark on the blankets.
James, who was closest, could feel a distinct chill emanating from Cedric's
form. The ghost continued.
For periods of time, I started to feel more aware. I began to see people
in the halls, but they were like smoke. I couldn't hear them. I came to realize

that these periods of activity happened in the hours of the day right after my
time of death. Each night, I'd feel myself awaken. I noticed the time,
because that was the thing that meant the most, the sense of minutes and
hours passing. I searched out a clock, the one just outside the Great Hall,
and watched the time go by. I was most awake throughout the night, but by
each morning, I'd begin to fade. Then, one morning, just as I was thinning,
losing touch, I saw him.
James sat up straight. "The intruder?"
Cedric nodded. I knew he wasn't supposed to be here, and somehow I
knew that if I tried, I could make him see me. I scared him away.
Cedric grinned again, and James thought he could see in that grin the
strong and likeable boy that his dad had known.
"But he came back," James said. Cedric's grin turned into a scowl of
frustration.
He came back, yes. I saw him, and I scared him off again. I started to
watch for him in the mornings. And then, one night, he broke in through a
window. I was stronger then, but I decided someone else needed to know he
was inside the castle. So I came to you, James. You had seen me, and I knew
who you were. I knew you'd help.
"That was the night you broke the stained-glass window," Zane said,
smiling. "Kicked that guy through it like Bruce Lee. Nice."
"Who was he?" James asked, but Cedric merely shook his head. He
didn't know.
"So it's almost seven o'clock, now," Ralph pointed out. "How are you
making us see you? Isn't this your weakest time?"
Cedric seemed to think about it. I'm getting more solid. I'm still just a
ghost, but I seem to be becoming, sort of, more of a ghost. I can talk more

now. And there is less and less of that strange nothing time. I think that this
is just how ghosts are made.
"But why?" James couldn't help asking. "What makes a ghost happen?
Why didn't you just, you know, move on?"
Cedric looked at him closely, and James sensed that Cedric himself
didn't know the answer to that question, or at least, not very clearly. He
shook his head slightly. I wasn't done yet. I had so much to live for. It
happened so fast, so suddenly. I just… wasn't done.
Ralph picked up Professor Jackson's case and threw it back into James'
trunk. "So where did you go when you popped off, James?" he said,
heaving himself onto the end of the bed.
James took a deep breath, collecting his memories of the strange
journey. He described the initial feeling of holding the cloak, how it seemed
to allow him to sense the air and the wind, then even the animals and the
trees. Then he told them about the vision he'd had, of being inside Merlin's
body, in his very thoughts. He shuddered, remembering the anger and
bitterness, and the voice of the servant, Austramaddux, who vowed his oath
to serve until the time of reckoning was come. He recalled it vividly as he
spoke, finishing by describing how the blackness of the night had wrapped
around him like a cocoon, shrinking and turning to nothingness.
Zane listened with intense interest. "It makes sense," he finally said in
a low, awed voice.
"What?" James asked.
"How Merlin might've done it. Don't you see? Professor Jackson
himself talked about it on our first day of class!" He was getting excited.
His eyes were wide, darting from James to Ralph to the ghost of Cedric,
who was still seated on the edge of the bed.
Ralph shook his head. "I don't get it. I don't have Technomancy this
year."

"Merlin didn't die," Zane said emphatically. "He Disapparated!"
James was puzzled. "That doesn't make sense. Any wizard can
Apparate. What's so special about that?"
"Remember what Jackson told us that first day? Apparition is
instantaneous for the wizard whose doing it, even though it takes a little
time for the wizard's bits to fly apart then reassemble at a new place. If a
wizard Disapparates without determining his new center-point, he never
Reapparates at all, right? He just stays stuck in nothingness forever!"
"Well, sure," James agreed, remembering the lecture, but failing to see
the point.
Zane was nearly vibrating with excitement. "Merlin didn't Disapparate
to a place," he said meaningfully. "He Disapparated to a time and a set of
circumstances!"
Ralph and James boggled, considering the implications. Zane went on.
"At the end of your vision, you said Merlin told Austramaddux to keep the
relics and to watch for the time to be right. Then when the time came, the
relics were supposed to be gathered again at the Hall of Elder's Crossing.
You see? Merlin was setting up the time and circumstances for his
Reapparition. What you described at the very end, James, was Merlin
Disapparating into oblivion," Zane paused, thinking hard. "All these
centuries, he's just been suspended in time, stuck in everywhereness,
waiting for the right circumstances for his Reapparition. To him, no time
has passed at all!"
Ralph looked at the trunk at the end of James' bed. "Then it's for real,"
he said. "They could actually do it. They could bring him back."
"Not anymore," James said, smiling mirthlessly. "We've got the robe.
Without all the relics, the circumstances won't be right. They can't do
anything."
As soon as James had heard Zane explain it, it made perfect sense,

especially in the context of the Threshold Marker vision. Suddenly, his
possession of the robe had become even more important, and he couldn't
help wondering at the remarkable series of lucky circumstances that'd led to
them obtaining it. From the briefcase Ralph had discovered in just the nick
of time to Zane's remarkably effective Visum-ineptio charm, James had the
strongest sense that he, Zane, and Ralph were being guided in their goal of
thwarting the Merlin plot. But who was helping them?
"By the way," James said to the ghost of Cedric, once Ralph and Zane
had fallen into an animated discussion about Merlin's Disapparition. "You
said you were sent to help me. Who sent you?"
Cedric had stood and was fading a bit, but not much. He smiled at
James and said, Someone I'm not supposed to mention, although I think you
can probably guess. Someone who's been watching.
Snape, thought James. The portrait of Snape had sent Cedric to help
him when he'd gotten sucked into the Threshold Marker. But how had he
known? James thought about that for a long time after Zane and Ralph had
headed back to their own rooms, long after the rest of the Gryffindors had
climbed the stairs and plopped into their beds. No answer came that night,
however, and eventually James slept.

For the next several days, the three boys went about their normal
school activities in a sort of triumphant fog. James left Jackson's bag, with
the relic robe inside, locked in his trunk and protected with Zane's Locking
Spell. Considering the effectiveness of the Visum-ineptio charm on the fake
case, they had no serious concerns that anyone would even be looking for
the real briefcase. Jackson continued to carry the old red rock-hound bag
with the Hiram & Blattwott's label on it to classes and meals, with no
indication that he thought anything was out of the ordinary. Further, no one
else spared it a second glance, even though Jackson had been seen carrying
the black case with his name plate on the side for months. Finally, on

Saturday afternoon, James, Ralph, and Zane met in the Gryffindor common
room to discuss their next steps.
"There're really only two questions, now," Zane said, leaning over the
table upon which they were ostensibly doing their homework. "Where is the
Hall of Elder's Crossing? And where is the third relic, Merlin's staff?"
James nodded. "I've been thinking about that last one. The throne is
under the guard of Madame Delacroix. The robe was under the guard of
Professor Jackson. The third relic must be under the guard of the third
conspirator. My guess is it's somebody else here on the grounds, an inside
person. What if it's the Slytherin who used the name Austramaddux on
Ralph's GameDeck? They'd have to be aware of the plot if they used that
name, and if they are aware of it, they're in on it."
"But who?" Ralph asked. "I didn't see who took it. It was just gone.
Besides, the staff of Merlin would be pretty hard to hide, wouldn't it? If he
was as big as you said he was in your vision, James, then the thing must be
six feet tall if it's an inch. How do you hide a six-foot magical lightning rod
like that?"
James shook his head. "I haven't the foggiest. Still, it's up to you to
keep a look out, Ralph. Like Ted said, you're our inside man."
Ralph slumped. Zane doodled on a piece of parchment. "So what
about question one?" he said without looking up. "Where is the Hall of
Elder's Crossing?"
James and Ralph exchanged blank looks. James said, "No clue, again.
But I think there's a third question we need to think about, too."
"As if the first two weren't tricky enough," Ralph muttered.
Zane glanced up and James saw he was doodling the gate to the Grotto
Keep. "What's the third question?"

"Why haven't they done it yet?" James whispered. "If they believe they
have all three relics, why haven't they just gone on down to wherever this
Hall of Elder's Crossing is and tried to call Merlin back from his thousandyear Disapparition?"
None of them had any answers, but they agreed it was an important
question. Zane flipped his doodle over, revealing a drabble of scribbled
notes and diagrams from Arithmancy class. "I'm checking the Ravenclaw
library, but between homework, classes, Quidditch, debate and
Constellations Club, I hardly have two minutes left to rub together."
Ralph dropped his quill on the table and leaned back, stretching.
"How's that coming, anyway? You're the only one with any contact with
Madame Delacroix. What's she like?"
"Like a gypsy mummy with a pulse," Zane replied. "She and
Trelawney are supposed to be sharing Constellations Club, like Divination
class, but they've started trading on and off instead of teaching it together.
Works a lot better, since they sort of cancel each other out, anyway.
Trelawney just has us sketch astrological symbols and look at the planets
through the telescope to 'ascertain the moods and manners of the planetary
brethren'." James, who knew Sybil Trelawney as a distant family friend,
grinned at Zane's affectionate impression of her. Zane went on, "Delacroix,
though, she has us plotting star charts and measuring the color of starlight
wavelengths, working out the exact timing of some big astronomical event."
"Oh, yeah," James remembered. "The alignment of the planets. Petra
and Ted told me about that. They're in Divination with her. Seems like the
voodoo queen's really into that kind of stuff."
"She's the anti-Trelawney, that's for sure. With her, it's all math and
calculations. We know the date it'll happen, but she wants us to factor out
the exact timing right down to the minute. Pure busywork if you ask me.
She's a little kooky about it."
"She's kooky in general, if you ask me," Ralph stated.

"I think she might be onto us," James said in a hushed voice. "I've seen
her looking at me sometimes."
Zane raised his eyebrows and pointed at his eyes. "She's blind, if you
remember. She's not looking at anything, mate."
"I know," James said, undeterred. "But I swear that she knows
something. I think she has ways of seeing that don't have anything to do
with her eyes."
"Let's not freak ourselves out," Ralph said quickly. "This is freaky
enough already. She can't know anything. If she did, she'd act on it, right?
So forget about her."
The next day, James and Ralph went to visit Hagrid in his cabin,
ostensibly to inquire after Grawp and Prechka. Hagrid was rebuilding the
wagon Prechka had accidentally destroyed and was glad of the break. He
invited them in and served them tea and biscuits while he warmed himself
by the fire, Trife lying over his feet and occasionally licking Hagrid's
lowered hand.
"Oh, it's all ups and downs for them," Hagrid said, as if the tumults of
giant courtship were a quaint mystery. "They fought fer a while over the
holiday. Lovers' spat over an elk carcass. Grawpy wanted the head, but
Prechka wanted to make the antlers into a bit o' jewelry."
Ralph took a break from blowing steam off his tea. "She wanted to make
jewelry out of elk antlers?"
"Well, I say jewelry," Hagrid said, raising his huge palms. "It's a tricky
concept. Giants use the same sound fer jewelry an' weapons. Comes to the
same thing when yeh're twenty feet tall, I s'pose. Anyway, they worked that
all out and now they're happy as can be again."
James asked, "Is she still living up in the foothills, Hagrid?"

"Sure she is," Hagrid said, a little reproachfully. "She's an hon'rable
girl, is Prechka. And Grawp, why, he bides his time in his hovel most days.
Got 'imself a right nice firepit and a lean-to of birches. These things take
time. Giant love is… well, it's a delicate thing, don'cher know."
Ralph coughed a little on his tea.
"Hey, Hagrid," James said, changing the topic. "You've been around
Hogwarts for a long time. You probably know lots of secret stuff about the
school and the castle, don't you?"
Hagrid settled into his chair. "Well, sure. Nobody knows the grounds
s'well as myself. Except maybe Argus Filch. I started out as a student, I did,
a-ways back before even yer dad was born."
James knew he had to be very careful. "Yeah, that's what I thought.
Tell me, Hagrid, if somebody had something really magical they wanted to
hide in the castle somewhere…"
Hagrid stopped petting Trife. He turned his great shaggy head toward
James slowly. "And what would a first-year pup like yerself be needin' to
hide, might I ask?"
"Oh, not me, Hagrid," James said quickly. "Somebody else. I'm just
curious."
Hagrid's beetle black eyes twinkled. "I see. And this somebody else,
I'm wond'rin' what they might be up to, then, hidin' secret magical items
here and there…"
Ralph took a large, deliberate sip of the his tea. James looked out the
window, avoiding Hagrid's suddenly penetrating gaze. "Oh, you know,
nothing particular. I was just wondering…"
"Ah," Hagrid said, smiling slightly and nodding. "Yeh've been told a

lot of stories about old Hagrid from yer dad and Aunt Hermione and Uncle
Ron, I'm guessing. Hagrid used to let slip some details that maybe he was
supposed to keep secret. S'true, too. I can be a bit thick sometimes,
forgettin' what I should and shouldn't be saying. Yeh may recall stories
about a certain dog named Fluffy, among others, yes?" Hagrid studied
James intently for a few moments, and then heaved a great sigh. "James,
m'boy, I'm a good bit older than I was then. Old Keepers of the Keys don't
learn much, but we do learn. Besides, yer dad clued me in that you might be
getting up to dickens and asked me to keep an eye out for yeh. Soon as he
noticed yeh'd, er, borrowed his Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder's Map,
that was."
"What?" James blurted, turning so quickly he almost knocked over his
tea.
Hagrid's bushy eyebrows rose. "Oh. Well, there yeh go, then. I don't
s'pose I was meant to tell you that." He frowned thoughtfully, then seemed
to dismiss it. "Ah, well, he didn't actually tell me not to mention it."
James sputtered, "He knows? Already?"
"James," Hagrid laughed, "yer dad's the Head of the Auror
Department, in case yeh forgot. Talked to him about it last week right in me
own fire, here. What he's most curious about is whether or not yeh've gotten
the map to work yet, since so much of the castle's been rebuilt. He forgot to
test it when he was here. So, had any luck, then?"
In the adventure of capturing the Merlin robe, James had completely
forgotten about the Marauder's Map. Sulkily, he told Hagrid that he hadn't
tried it yet.
"Prob'ly for the best, yeh know," Hagrid replied. "Just 'cause yer dad
knows yeh nicked it, doesn't mean he's happy about it. And so far as I was
able to gather, yer mum doesn't know about it at all, yet. If yeh're lucky, she
won't, neither, although I can't imagine yer dad keepin' that kind of secret
from her fer long. Best just to keep yer contraband packed away rather than
hidin' it anywhere on the grounds. Trust me, James. Keepin' suspicious

magical items around the school can cause a lot more trouble than it's
worth."
On the way back to the castle, bundled against the windy cold, Ralph
asked James, "What's he mean about getting the map to work? What's it
do?"
James explained the Marauder's Map to Ralph, feeling vaguely
worried and annoyed that his dad already knew about his taking it and the
Invisibility Cloak. He'd known he'd get caught eventually, but had assumed
he'd get a howler about it rather than a ribbing from Hagrid.
Ralph was interested in the map. "It really shows everybody who's in
the castle and where they are? That'd be seriously useful! So how does it
work?"
"You have to say a special phrase. Dad told me a long time ago, but I
can't remember it off the top of my head. We'll give it a try some night.
Right now, I don't want to think about it."
Ralph nodded and let the subject drop. They entered the castle through
the main portico and parted at the stairs leading to the cellars and the
Slytherin quarters.
It was getting late and James found himself alone in the corridors. The
wintry night was cloudy and starless. It pressed against the windows and
sucked at the light of the hall torches. James shivered, partly at the cold and
partly at a sense of icy dread that seemed to be seeping into the corridor,
filling it like a heavy fog from the floor up. He walked faster, wondering
how it could be that the halls were so dark and empty. It wasn't particularly
late, and yet the air had a sense of chilly stillness that felt like the dead of
morning or the air of a sealed crypt. He realized he'd been walking rather
farther than the corridor should have allowed. Surely he should have come
to the intersection with the statue of the one-eyed witch by now, where he'd
turn left into the reception hall, leading to the staircases. James stopped and
glanced back the way he had come. The hall looked the same, and yet

wrong somehow. It looked far too long. The shadows of it seemed to be in
the wrong places, teasing his eye somehow. And then he noticed there were
no torches on the walls. The light hung empty, ghostly, bleeding its color
from flickering yellow to shimmery silver, fading even as he watched.
Fear leaped onto James' back, icy cold and undeniable. He spun back
to the front, meaning to run, but his feet failed him when he saw what was
ahead. The corridor was still there, but the pillars had become the trunks of
trees. The ribs of the vaulted ceilings had turned to limbs and vines, with
nothing beyond but the vast face of the night sky. Even the pattern of the
tiled floor melted into a lacework of roots and dead leaves. And then, even
as James watched, the illusion of the school corridor evaporated completely,
leaving only forest. Cold wind barreled past him, whipping his cloak and
threading the hair back from his temples with ghostly fingers. James
recognized where he was, even though the last time he'd been here, the
leaves had still been on the trees and the crickets had been singing their
chorus. This was the wood bordering the lake, near the island of the Grotto
Keep. The trees groaned, rubbing their bare branches together in the wind,
and the sound was like low voices moaning in sleep, wrapped in fever
dreams. James realized he was walking again, moving toward the edge of
the trees, where the reeds swished and bobbed at the edge of the lake. A
great, dark mass rose beyond, blotting out the view. As James approached,
apparently helpless to stop his plodding feet, the moon unveiled from a
bank of dense clouds. The island of the Grotto Keep revealed itself in the
moonglow, and James' breath caught in his chest. The island had grown.
The impression of a secret fortress was stronger than ever. It was a gothic
monstrosity, decked with grim statues and leering gargoyles, all somehow
grown from the vines and trees of the island. The dragon's maw of the
bridge lay before him, and James forced himself to stop there, without
setting a foot onto it. He remembered the gnashing wooden teeth as it had
tried to devour him and Zane. In the silvery moonlight, the gates at the
other end of the bridge were quite visible, as well as the words of the poem.
When by the light of Sulva bright I found the Grotto Keep. The gates
suddenly shuddered and flung open, revealing blackness like a throat. A
voice came out of that blackness, clear and beautiful, pure as a chiming
bell.

"Keeper of the relic," said the voice. "Your duty is satisfied."
As James stood and watched, looking across the bridge into the
darkness of the open doorway, a light formed there. It condensed, solidified,
and assumed a shape. It was, James recognized, the gently glowing shape of
a dryad, a woman of the wood, a tree sprite. It wasn't the same one he had
met before, however. That one had glowed with a green light. This one's
light was pale blue. She pulsed slightly. Her hair flowed around her head as
if in a current of water. A quiet, almost loving smile was on her lips and her
huge, liquid eyes twinkled gently.
"You have performed your role," the dryad said, her voice as dreamy
and hypnotic as the other dryad's had been, if not more so. "You need not
guard the relic. This is not your burden. Bring it to us. We are its guardians.
Ours is the task, granted from the beginning. Relieve yourself of its weight.
Bring us the relic."
James looked down and saw that, without realizing it, he had taken a
step onto the bridge. The dragon's maw hadn't closed on him. He glanced
up and saw that it had actually pulled upwards a bit, welcoming him. The
junction of the fallen trees which formed the jaw creaked slightly.
"Bring us the relic," the dryad said again, and she lifted her arms
toward James as if she meant to welcome him with an embrace. Her arms
were unnaturally long, almost as if they stretched out to him over the
bridge. Her fingernails were a blue so deep, it was nearly purple. They were
long and surprisingly ragged. James retreated a step, backing off the bridge.
The dryad's eyes changed. They brightened and hardened.
"Bring us the relic," she said once more, and her voice changed as
well. The song had leaked out of it. "It isn't yours. Its power is greater than
you, greater than all of you. Bring it to us before it unmakes you. The relic
destroys those whom it does not need, and it no longer needs you. Bring it
to us before it decides to use someone else. Bring us the relic while you still
can."
Her long arms reached across the bridge and James felt sure he could

touch them if he reached out. He backed away further, hooking his heel on a
root and stumbling. He turned, pinwheeling his arms for a handhold, and
fell against something broad and hard. He pressed his hands against it and
pushed backwards, righting himself. It was the stone of a wall. Five feet
away, a torch crackled in its sconce. James glanced around. The corridor of
Hogwarts stretched away, warm and mundane, as if he'd never left. Perhaps
he never had. He looked the other direction. There was the intersection with
the statue of the one-eyed witch. The sense of dread was gone, and yet
James felt certain that what had happened hadn't just been a vision of some
kind. He could still feel the chill of the night wind in the folds of his cloak.
When he looked down, there was a crumble of dry river mud on the end of
his shoe. He shivered, then gathered himself and ran the rest of the way to
the stairs, where he took two at a time climbing to the common room.
The only thing James was sure of was that something wanted him to
give up the Merlin robe. He just wasn't sure it was the right something.
Fortunately, the robe was still locked away in Jackson's bag in James' trunk.
After his experience with touching the robe, James had no plans to take the
robe out of the trunk again until he handed it over to his dad and the Auror
Department when the time was right. The time wasn't right yet, but it would
be. Soon. Either way, he wasn't about to hand it over to some mysterious
entity, tree sprite or not. Confident of this, James reached the Gryffindor
common room and prepared for bed. Still, long after he had settled under
his blankets, he thought he could hear the whispering voice in the wind
beyond the window, pleading with him endlessly, monotonously: Bring us
the relic… Bring us the relic while you still can… It chilled him, and when
he did sleep, he dreamed of those haunting, beautiful eyes and those long,
long arms with the thin hands and ragged, purple fingernails.

The following Friday, in Herbology class, James was amused to see
that Neville Longbottom had moved Ralph's transfigured peach tree out of
the Transfiguration classroom, where it had become rather cumbersome,
and into one of the greenhouses.

"All this from a banana." Neville confirmed to James after class.
"Yeah. I bet Ralph was more surprised than anybody. He's amazing,
but I don't think he knows his own power, really. Some of the other
Slytherins think he's got some powerful old magical family in his bloodline.
Could be, I suppose, since he never knew his mum."
"That's the sort of thing they'd think," Neville said with unusual
candor. "Muggle-borns can be just as powerful as anyone born of an old
pureblood family. Some prejudices never change, though."
James looked up at the peach tree, which had become rather large
despite the fact that its roots were still twined hopelessly around one of the
Transfiguration room tables. He knew Neville was right, but he couldn't
help thinking about the look on Ralph's face the day he'd transfigured the
banana. Ralph had never said so, but James had a sense that Ralph's power
frightened him just a little.
The next day, the Gryffindor Quidditch team was slated in a match
against the Slytherins. James sat in the Gryffindor stands with Zane and
Sabrina Hildegard. Ralph, for purposes of maintaining his few Slytherin
friends, sat in the green-decked grandstand across the pitch. James made
eye contact with Ralph once and waved. Ralph waved back, but carefully,
being sure not to be seen by his older housemates.
Below, on the field, the team captains strode out to the centerline to
meet with Cabe Ridcully for the declaration of rules and a handshake, a
tradition that nobody really paid any attention to anymore. James watched
Justin Kennely shake Tabitha Corsica's hand perfunctorily. Even from his
vantage point high in the grandstand, James could see the smarmy, polite
smile on Tabitha's admittedly beautiful face. Then both turned and walked
in opposite directions back to their holding pens beneath the stands, leaving
Ridcully alone with the Quidditch trunk.
Zane happily munched a bag of popcorn he'd brought with him, having
somehow convinced one of the kitchen house-elves to prepare it. "This

should be an excellent match," he observed, taking in the highspirited
crowd.
"Gryffindor against Slytherin is always a crowd-stopper," Sabrina said,
raising her voice over the noise. "Back in my mum's day, everybody hated
Slytherin because they were dirty players. A guy named Miles Bletchley
was the team captain back then, and he went on to play for the Thundelarra
Thunderers for a couple of years until he was booted from the league for
using a corked broom."
"A what?" Zane interjected. "How do you cork a broom?"
James explained, "It's a kind of cheating where a hole is drilled down
the center of the broom and something magical is threaded into it, like a
dragon's rib or a basilisk fang. Basically turns the whole broom into a magic
wand. He was using it to cast Repelling Spells and modified Expelliarmus
spells, making the opposing team fumble the Quaffle. Really crooked old
bugger, he was."
As he spoke, the Slytherin team streaked out from their holding pen to
the sound of cheers from their grandstand. Damien, seated in the broadcast
booth with his wand to his throat, announced the team, his voice echoing in
the crisp January air.
"So," Zane called over the cheers, "doesn't seem like everybody hates
the Slytherins anymore."
Sure enough, there was scattered applause throughout the rest of the
grandstands. Only the
Gryffindor stands booed and hissed. James shrugged. "They don't
seem to play as dirty as they used to. But they still field unusually strong
teams. There's something dodgy about them, it's just not as obvious as it
used to be."
"I'll say," Zane agreed. "When we played Slytherin before the break, it
was as clean a match as I've played all year. Ridcully barely called a single

foul on 'em. Still, there was something just a little too slick about them.
They're either the luckiest bunch of skunks ever to mount brooms or they've
made a deal with the devil himself."
James gritted his teeth.
Across the pitch, Horace Slughorn, red-cheeked and bundled in a furcollared coat and matching hat, waved a small Slytherin flag on a stick and
yelled encouragements to his House team. Ralph, seated two rows below
him, applauded dutifully. James knew that Ralph wasn't much of a
Quidditch fan, despite the almost studious attention he paid to the matches,
and James guessed that it was because Ralph couldn't really choose a team
to be loyal to. His friends, including Rufus Burton, cheered and hooted
wildly.
The Gryffindor team took to the pitch next, streaming from the holding
pen beneath their grandstand, and the spectators around James erupted,
leaping to their feet as one. James shouted right alongside them, grinning
and ecstatic, certain that the Gryffindors would win. He stomped his feet
and yelled himself hoarse as the team circled the pitch, waving and
grinning.
The teams flew into position. After instructing the teams to play a
clean match and assuring everyone was in position, Ridcully released the
Bludgers and Snitch and tossed the Quaffle into the air. The players
collapsed into a swarm, chasing the Bludgers and wrestling over the
Quaffle. Noah and Tom Squallus, the two Seekers, streaked off after the
Snitch, which darted around the Ravenclaw banners and vanished.
Almost immediately, the difference between the teams became
apparent. Gryffindor fought a textbook match, based entirely on carefully
practiced drills. Justin Kennely could be heard shouting plays and
formations over the cheering crowd, pointing and giving signs. The
Slytherins, on the other hand, seemed to have a graceful, almost eerie
playing style that moved them over the pitch like a school of fish. Tabitha
Corsica called no directions from her broom, and yet her players peeled off
and regrouped with dancelike precision. Once, while in possession, Tabitha

ducked under a Bludger and simultaneously tossed the Quaffle over her
shoulder. The ball arced through the air and was deftly caught by a
teammate who had flown a perpendicular course directly underneath her.
The teammate underhanded the Quaffle through the center goal before the
Gryffindor Keeper even realized Tabitha didn't have it anymore. James
groaned while the Slytherins stood and cheered. Justin Kennely looked as if
he wanted to jump up and down on his broom in frustration. Still, an hour
into the match, the score was one hundred and thirty to one hundred and
forty in favor of Gryffindor, close enough that the lead had changed five
times.
"It's all about the Seekers in a match like this," Sabrina yelled
exuberantly, not taking her eyes from the players. "And Squallus is new to
that position since Gnoffton finished last year. Noah should be able to nail
him to the wall with his own broom."
Sure enough, a sudden roar went up from the crowd and James saw
that Noah was in pursuit of the Snitch. Across the pitch, Tom Squallus was
bent over his broom, baring his teeth into the cold wind and rushing to cut
Noah off. He banked through the throng of players, barely missed by Justin
Kennely's swatted Bludger. Despite his speed, James was confident there
was no way Squallus would beat Noah to the prize. A golden streak and a
whir of tiny wings buzzed by the Gryffindor grandstand, followed a split
second later by Noah. Those in the front rows ducked, then leapt to their
feet cheering as Noah banked hard, barely missing the grandstand and
lunging forward on his broom, arm outstretched. There was a long,
breathless moment when Noah appeared to be in the tow of the tiny golden
ball, the distance shrinking, shrinking, Noah's hand trembling as he reached.
Then, in a flurry of cloaks and brooms, something changed. Noah was
forced to yank up on his broom, grinding to a slewing stop that destroyed
his control. A cloud of Slytherins, led by Tabitha Corsica, had swept in
front of him from all directions, stitching a virtual wall in midair. Noah ran
into a burly Slytherin and bounced off, losing his grip on his broom. He
tumbled sideways, grabbing on with one hand and swinging beneath it. The
crowd roared.

Tabitha Corsica shot through the wall of Slytherins, which opened for
her like an iris. Her cloak whipped behind her and James was amazed to see
the Snitch flying behind her, in the shadow of her cloak. It dipped upwards
and Tabitha followed almost instantaneously, bent low over her broom.
Somehow, without even looking, she was shadowing the Snitch, marking it
for Tom Squallus. He saw her, banked hard, and swooped past her. When he
came out on the other side, his hand was raised and the Snitch glittered
within it. The Slytherin grandstands cheered uproariously. The game was
over.
Noah swung himself from beneath his broom, hooking one foot over it.
He struggled upright just as Ted and Justin Kennely swooped in next to
him, talking and gesturing. James understood the nature of what they were
saying even if he couldn't hear the words through the cheers and boos.
Something extremely odd had happened, and yet the Slytherins hadn't
actually committed any fouls. On the grass of the pitch, Petra Morganstern,
who played Chaser, had cornered Cabe Ridcully and was animatedly
pointing at Tabitha Corsica, who was still on her broom, being
congratulated by her teammates alongside Tom Squallus. Ridcully shook
his head, unable or unwilling to agree with Petra's allegations. There didn't
seem to be any recourse for the Gryffindors, since they couldn't prove that
anything illegal had actually occurred.
"What in the name of Voldy's pasty-white rear end was that?" Damien
Damascus demanded, having quit the broadcast booth and joined James,
Zane, and Sabrina.
Sabrina shook her head. "That was right creepy. Did you see what I
saw? Corsica blocked the Snitch! She never touched it, but she flew right
next to it, marking it until Squallus could get his broom in gear."
"There's no rule against that?" Zane asked as they all joined the throng
leaving the stands.
"No point making rules against things that are impossible," Damien
said crossly. "As long as she didn't touch it, she's in the clear. She wasn't
even watching the Snitch. I'd swear it."

Ralph was trotting across the pitch when James and Zane tromped
down the last few steps. Panting, he angled them away from Sabrina and
Damien, whose moods were getting fouler.
"Did you see that?" Ralph asked, struggling to catch his breath. He
seemed extremely agitated.
"We saw something," James said, "although I'm not sure I believe my
eyes."
Zane was less diplomatic. "The Gryffindors think your buddies
cheated somehow. It's going to throw off the final standings, too. Now it
looks like Ravenclaw will be playing Slytherin for the tournament. I was
hoping for a Gryffindor and Ravenclaw match."
"Will you two forget about the bloody Quidditch tournament for a
minute?" Ralph said, turning to face the two of them at the base of the
grandstands. "In case you've forgotten, we have more important things to
think about."
"All right, then spill it, Ralph," James said, trying not to be annoyed.
Ralph took a deep breath. "You told me I was your man on the inside,
didn't you? So I've been watching closely, looking for hints and clues about
who might be involved with the whole Merlin plot, right?"
"And you think now is the time to discuss this?" Zane asked, raising
his eyebrows.
"No, no, it's fine," James interjected. "What'd you see, Ralph?
Something going on back at Slytherin Central?"
"No!" Ralph said impatiently. "Not back at the common room or
anything. Right here, just a few minutes ago! Remember what we're
supposed to be looking for?"

"Yeah," Zane said, becoming interested, "the Merlin staff."
Ralph nodded meaningfully. There was a cheer nearby. The three boys
turned as the Slytherins left the pitch, surrounded by a crowd of students in
green scarves. Tabitha walked at the head of the group, her broom held
triumphantly over her shoulder.
"Six feet or so of unusually magical wood," Ralph said in a low voice,
still watching Tabitha leave the pitch. "Origins unknown."
"That's right!" James replied, understanding dawning on him. "Tabitha
said her broom was a custom design, crafted by some Muggle artist or
something! She registered it as a Muggle artifact, since it wasn't a standard
model!"
"And there's no question that there's something pretty unusually
magical about it," Ralph added. James nodded.
"Are you saying what I think you're saying?" Zane asked
incredulously.
Ralph glanced back at him. "Makes sense, doesn't it? It's the perfect
hiding place! That's why I came running over here right after the match. I
wanted you both to see it, too, and see if it fits."
Zane whistled in awe. "Talk about your corked brooms! Here, all this
time Corsica's been flying around on Merlin's flippin' staff!"
James couldn't take his eyes off it as Tabitha crested the hill heading
back to the castle. The wintry sunlight glinted off the bristly tail of the
broom. It was indeed the perfect disguise for a six-foot length of highly
magical wood. And now they knew for sure who was the third coconspirator in the Merlin plot, the Slytherin who went by the profile name
of Austramaddux. James' heart pounded with excitement and anticipation.

"So," he said as the three of them began to follow the Slytherins at a
careful distance, wending their way back to the castle, "how are we going to
get the Merlin staff away from Tabitha Corsica?"

14.

The Hall of Elders' Crossing

"What? Why do we need to steal her broom, anyway?" Ralph
exclaimed at breakfast the next morning. He leaned over the table, reaching
for a plate of sausages. "It would be loads harder to steal than Jackson's
case was. Boys aren't even allowed in the girls' dorms. We'd never get near
it! Besides, we've got the robe already. They can't do anything without all
the relics."
"It's the Merlin staff, that's why we have to get it," James replied.
"Even on its own, it's got to be one of the most powerful magical objects in
the world. You saw what Tabitha Corsica did with it at the match. And it
wasn't just her shadowing the Snitch without even looking. Her whole team

seemed to respond to it somehow, or at least their brooms did. They knew
just where to be at all the right moments. That's some really powerful
magic. So far, she's only using the staff to win Quidditch matches, but do
you really want something like that in the hands of someone like her and
the Progressive Element?"
Ralph looked dour. Zane put his coffee cup down and stared at the
tabletop. "I don't know…," he said.
"What?" James said impatiently.
Zane glanced up. "Well, it just seems too easy, really. I mean, first
there was Ralph's buddy's rockhound bag that showed up at just the right
time. Then, no matter how you look at it, we got really lucky with that
Visum-ineptio charm. Even before that, look at all the coincidences that led
to you discovering the hiding place of the Merlin throne, from catching a
glimpse of the voodoo queen on the lake that night to finding that Daily
Prophet article about the break-in at the Ministry. And now, we just happen
to figure out that Tabitha's broom is the Merlin staff. I hate to say it, but it
can't be much of a dark conspiracy if a trio of first-year shlubs like us have
worked it all out."
James fumed. "All right, yeah, so we've gotten lucky here and there.
We've worked really hard and been extremely careful, too. And besides, it
all fits, doesn't it? Just because the people behind the Merlin plot have been
too arrogant to think anybody could catch them, doesn't mean the plot isn't
for real. What about what happened when we opened Jackson's case? And I
didn't even tell you what happened to me last week!"
Ralph jumped, almost knocking over his pumpkin juice. His eyes were
wild for a second, and then he calmed himself. "Last week? When?"
"The night we went to see Hagrid, right after I left you," James
answered. He described the way the halls of Hogwarts had transformed into
forest around him, his strange journey to the island of the Grotto Keep, and

the mysterious ghostly figure that had instructed him to bring her the relic
robe. Zane listened with keen interest, but Ralph's face was pale and blank.
When James finished, Zane asked, "You think it really was a dryad?"
James shrugged. "I don't know. It sure looked a lot like the one we saw
in the forest, but different, too. It pulsed, if you know what I mean. I could
feel it in my head."
"Maybe it was a dream," Zane said carefully. "It sure sounds like one."
"It wasn't a dream. I was in the corridor heading to the common room.
I wasn't sleepwalking."
"I'm just saying," Zane said blandly, lowering his eyes.
"What?" James prodded. "You think that whole Merlin thing was a
dream, too? When I disappeared from the room right in front of the both of
you, and Cedric Diggory's ghost had to bring me back?"
"Of course not. Still, it just sounds kind of crazy. Were you in the
forest or were you in the corridor? Which one was real? Were either of them
real? I mean, you've been thinking about all of this an awful lot. Maybe…"
Ralph was studying his empty plate. He spoke without raising his
head. "It wasn't a dream."
James and Zane both looked at Ralph. "How do you know, Ralph?"
Zane asked.
Ralph sighed. "Because the same thing happened to me."
James' eyes widened and his mouth dropped open. "You saw the
Grotto Keep? And the dryad, too? Ralph, why didn't you say anything?"
"I didn't know what they were!" Ralph said, looking up. "I wasn't with
you two when you went out in the forest and saw the island and met the

dryad, remember? So last week, I was on my way through the cellars to the
Slytherin rooms and all of a sudden, the cellars just faded out and turned
into a forest, same as you described, James. I saw the island and the tree
sprite lady, but I didn't recognize them. I thought she was a ghost or
something. She told me to bring the relic to her, but I was scared. I'm not
used to having weird, magical, out-of-body experiences or anything. I tried
to run away, but then, all of a sudden I was standing outside the door to the
Slytherin common room, plain as could be. I was worried about my sanity,
to tell the truth. I thought all this magical stuff was making me soft in the
head. Frankly, I'm a little relieved that the same thing happened to you,
too."
"I can see why," Zane said, nodding.
"But why you?" James asked. "You don't have the relic. I do."
Zane tilted his head and cinched a corner of his mouth up in that
expression of comical concentration he put on when he was thinking hard.
"Maybe it's as simple as the fact that Ralph's a Slytherin. I mean, he was in
the debate against Petra and me. Maybe whatever it was thinks Ralph is the
weakest link. Maybe it thinks it can get Ralph to betray you and steal the
robe and then bring it to the island. Not that you would, Ralph," Zane
added, looking at Ralph.
"No way. I'm never touching that thing," Ralph concurred.
"I guess that makes sense," James admitted. "So why not you, then,
Zane?"
Zane adopted a beatific expression, eyes raised to the ceiling, "Because
I'm as pure as the wind-driven snow. And besides, I'm never setting foot on
that island again. Too freaky for me by far."
"But I couldn't even steal the robe if I wanted to," Ralph said,
furrowing his brow. "Not with Zane's Locking Spell on it. James is the only
one who can open the trunk."

"You could just drag the whole trunk out there, I suppose," James
replied. "Where there's a will, there's a way."
"Fortunately, there's no will," Ralph said gravely.
Zane pushed his empty coffee cup away. "The dryad, or whatever it
was, wouldn't necessarily know about the extra Locking Spell on the trunk,
anyway. But the fact that it happened to both of you sure proves something
wants that robe, and knows we have it. If it isn't Jackson or any of his crew,
then who?"
James said, "Remember what the green dryad told us? She said that the
trees were waking, but that many of them had… how did she put it?"
Zane nodded, remembering. "She said they'd 'gone over', like milk past
its expiration date or something. Some of the trees are bad, in other words.
They're on the side of chaos and war. You think yours and Ralph's blue
dryad was one of the bad ones trying to sound nice?"
"Makes sense," Ralph said. "She was all beautiful and smiles and
everything, but I had a pretty strong feeling that if I didn't bring her the
robe, that smile could turn hungry pretty fast. That's what scared me. That
and her fingernails." He shuddered.
"So this is way bigger than just us and the Merlin conspirators," Zane
said seriously. "The tree spirits are involved. And who knows what else,
too. For all we know, everything in the magical world might be taking a
side."
"Either way," James said earnestly, "it proves that these relics are
incredibly powerful. In the wrong hands, who knows what kind of damage
they could do? That's why we have to get the staff away from Tabitha."
"I don't understand why we don't just get your dad in here," Ralph
interjected. "It's his job to deal with this kind of stuff, isn't it?"

"Because they have rules they have to follow," James replied wearily.
"They'd have to bring in a team of Aurors to scour the grounds. They
wouldn't just go nick Tabitha's broom because we said it was the Merlin
staff, even if we did turn over the robe. There'd be magical sweeps,
investigating every unusual source of power. It could go on for days. By the
time they got around to checking out Tabitha, she'd have gotten the broom
out of here. Jackson and Delacroix might sniff trouble and escape, too.
They might even get the whole conspiracy together to go to this Hall of
Elder's Crossing and try to bring Merlin back. It wouldn't work without the
robe, of course, but then the throne and the staff would be lost, hidden and
in the control of dark wizards."
Ralph sighed. "All right, all right. I'm convinced. So we'll try to
capture the Merlin staff from Corsica. But that's it, all right? Then we turn it
all over to your dad and his pros. They clean up the mess and we can be the
heroes. Whatever. OK?"
Zane nodded. "Yeah, I'm with you. Get the broom and we're done.
Agreed?"
James agreed. "So we need a plan. Any ideas?"
"It won't be easy," Ralph said firmly. "If we got lucky with Jackson's
briefcase, then we'll need an act of God to pull this one off. The Slytherin
quarters are so thick with guard hexes and Anti-Spying spells that they
almost hum. They're the most suspicious lot I've ever met."
"Tricksters always expect to be tricked," Zane said wisely. "But there's
one thing we're forgetting, and it may even be more important than
capturing the Merlin staff."
"What's more important than that?" James asked.
"Keeping the relic we've got," Zane answered simply, meeting James'
eyes. "Something out there knows we have the robe, and it's already tried
once to get it from you. I don't know what kind of magic that was, but you

both seem pretty convinced that it transported you to the island straight out
of Hogwarts halls, right?"
James and Ralph exchanged looks and then nodded at Zane.
"So," Zane continued, "if Disapparition is impossible on Hogwarts
grounds, then it used some other form of magic to get you there. That's
some powerful mojo. What's to say it won't try again?"
Ralph paled. "I hadn't even thought of that."
"Maybe it used up all its power the first time," James said a little
doubtfully.
"You two better hope so," Zane said, looking back and forth between
them. "Because it already tried asking nice. The next time, it won't be so
polite."
An idea struck James and he shivered.
"What?" Ralph asked, seeing James' face change.
"Remote Physio-Apparition," James said in a hushed voice. "That's
what Professor Franklyn called Delacroix's power to project a wraith of
herself. It's different from regular Apparition, because she just sends out
something like a ghost of herself, but the wraith can still look solid and
affect things. I looked it up. The ghost makes a solid version of itself out of
whatever material is handy, and then wears that like a puppet. Somehow she
used it to bring the Merlin throne here and hide it on the island without
being detected."
Zane frowned. "OK. So?"
"So what if that was how Ralph and I were sent out to the Grotto
Keep? Ralph, you called it an out-of-body experience. What if that's what it
really was? Maybe we were forced to have a Remote Physio-Apparition!

Only a wraith of ourselves went out to the grotto, but our bodies stayed in
the corridors, just sort of… frozen."
Ralph was clearly horrified by the thought. Zane looked thoughtful. "It
seems to fit. Both of you said it happened when you were alone in the
corridors. There'd be no one to see you both standing there on autopilot
while your souls or whatever were strung out to the Grotto Keep."
"But that's Delacroix's specialty," Ralph said, shuddering. "You think
she knows we got the robe somehow?"
James answered, "Maybe. She's slippery as an eel. She might have
figured it out and not even told Jackson. Maybe she wants all the glory for
herself."
"One thing is for sure, then," Zane announced. "We can't let you two
be alone. My guess is that whoever or whatever is doing this doesn't want
the secret to get out. That's why they waited until you two were alone for a
few minutes. If we keep people around you, then maybe it won't try again."
Ralph was as white as a statue. "Unless it gets really, really desperate."
"Well, yeah," Zane agreed. "There's always that possibility. But we
can't do anything in that case, so let's just hope it doesn't come to that."
"That makes me feel loads better," Ralph moaned.
"Come on," James said, getting up from the breakfast table. "It's
getting late and the house-elves are giving us the eye. It's time we got out of
here before somebody notices we're planning something."
The three boys wandered out onto the chilly grounds and talked of
other things for a while, then, having separate house-related obligations,
went their separate ways for the rest of the day.
The next week was frustratingly busy. Neville Longbottom assigned
one of his very unusual but painstakingly demanding essays. This led to

James spending an inordinate amount of time in the library, researching the
endless uses of spynuswort, an endeavor that was further complicated by
the fact that every part of the spynuswort plant, from the leaves to the stem
to the root and even its seeds, was used in any number of applications, from
healing skin diseases to waxing broomsticks. James had just added the
seventy-ninth entry to his scribbled list when Morgan Patonia sat down at
the table across from him with a heavy sigh. Morgan, a first-year
Hufflepuff, was also in Herbology and working on her spynuswort essay.
"You only need to list five uses," Morgan stated when she saw James'
list. "You know that, don't you?"
"Five?" James said weakly.
Morgan gave James a look of somehow delighted disdain. "Professor
Longbottom only assigned us to write about spynuswort because it's one of
the three most useful plants in the magical world. If we were to write about
every one of its uses, we'd be turning in encyclopedias, you silly boy."
James' face heated. "I knew that!" he said, aiming for aloof arrogance
and hitting only wounded petulance. "I just forgot. Can't blame me for
being thorough, can you?"
Morgan tittered, obviously thrilled that James had wasted so much
time. James packed up a few minutes later and moved to the Gryffindor
common room, annoyed but simultaneously relieved. At least his essay was
finished. In fact, since he'd already written about twenty-three spynuswort
uses, he probably stood to get loads of extra credit. Just as long as Neville
didn't figure out that the thoroughness of James' report simply meant James
hadn't been paying much attention in class.
Twice, James saw Professor Delacroix in the corridors and had the
haunting sensation that she was watching him. He never actually saw her
eyes on him, but since she was blind, that hardly mattered anyway. James
remembered the way Delacroix had maneuvered the tureen of gumbo with
her ugly graperoot wand at the Alma Aleron dinner, never spilling a drop.
He had a suspicion that Delacroix had ways of seeing that didn't rely at all

upon her useless eyes. In fact, that could explain how she might have
noticed that Jackson's briefcase was different. The Visum-ineptio charm
only worked on what people saw with their eyes, didn't it? Still, she never
said anything or even so much as paused in her stride when she passed him.
James decided that he was simply being paranoid. Besides, as Zane pointed
out, what difference did it make? She might be the one trying to trick Ralph
and James into taking the relic robe out to the Grotto Keep, or it might be
some other force entirely. Either way, they had to be on guard never to be
alone, and in the end, the source of the threat didn't really matter anyway.
James had begun to realize just how hard it was to never be alone. He
would've thought, in a school the size of Hogwarts, it would've been quite
rare, anyway. Now that he was paying attention, he realized he'd been on
his own on the grounds or in the halls several times each day, whether
crossing the grounds to get to Neville Longbottom's Herbology class after
Transfiguration or just going to the bathroom in the middle of the night.
Arranging to never be alone even in these circumstances was an annoying
chore, but Zane, to James' surprise, was consistently adamant about it.
"Even if we did capture that robe by a string of completely freakish
lucky breaks, I'm not gonna let it slip out of our hands because we got
careless," he told James one day, walking him to the Herbology
greenhouses. "It's the Merlin conspirators' carelessness that's been working
for us. I'm not gonna do them any favors like that."
One day, James introduced Ralph and Zane to the Protean Charm as a
means of communicating if ever an emergency chaperone was needed.
James had ordered three novelty rubber ducks from Weasley's Wizard
Wheezes, giving one each to Zane and Ralph.
"The Protean Charm means that if I squeeze my duck, both of yours
will sound as well," James explained, giving his duck a tweak.
"Sod off!" all three ducks quacked in unison.
"Excellent," Zane said, giving his own duck a firm squeeze, resulting
in a chorus of happy insults. "So if either of you find yourselves alone or

need me to take you to the bathroom, you just honk on this and I come
running, eh?"
"Ugh," Ralph said, staring at his duck with distaste. "I hate this. It's
like being three years old again."
"Hey, if you want to go getting zapped off to meet with some unhappy
tree spirit again…," Zane said, shrugging.
"I didn't say I wouldn't do it," Ralph replied, annoyed. "I just hate it, is
all."
Zane turned back to James. "So how will I know which one of you
quacked for me?"
James produced a black marker and drew a small J on the bottom of
his duck. "Take a look at yours, now. Anything we do to a single duck will
show up on all of them. When you hear the quack, just check the bottom of
the duck and see whose initial shows up."
"Very tight," Zane said approvingly. He raised his duck and tweaked it
as if he was saluting with it.
"Eat doxie poo!" the ducks quacked gaily.
"All right," James said, putting his own duck in his backpack. "This'll
only work if we only use them in an emergency. Got it?"
"Why don't they just squeak?" Ralph asked as he pocketed his.
"Ask a Weasley," James answered dismissively.
At first, having to have Zane or somebody else around at all times was
as annoying to James as it was to Ralph, but eventually, James got used to it
and even began to like it. Zane would sit on a chair in the corner of the
bathroom while James bathed, quizzing him on defensive spell
pronunciations or Transfiguration terminology and restrictions. James

learned that many of his Herbology classmates, including Morgan Patonia,
had Charms class before Herbology. Knowing this, James was able to hurry
from his Transfiguration class to the Charms classroom and then
accompany Patonia and her friends to the greenhouses, thus avoiding the
solitary trek across the grounds. Constantly being near people became an
easy habit for James, and eventually, he nearly forgot he was doing it. In
this fashion, the weeks melted past. The rawness of winter began to thaw
into the fragile warmth of spring. Still, neither James, Ralph, nor Zane had
come up with a plan to get Tabitha Corsica's broomstick. Eventually, they
determined, albeit reluctantly, that some group reconnaissance was
required.
"I'm not liking this," Ralph said as he led the other two to the door of
the Slytherin common room. "I haven't seen anyone other than Slytherins in
here for months."
"Don't worry about it, Ralph," Zane said, but his voice was less
confident than usual. "We've got James' magic map here. We can check it
again, but according to it, most of your buddies are out watching the
Slytherins practice for the tournament. Right, James?"
James had the Marauder's Map unfolded in his hands. He studied it as
he walked. "As far as I can tell, there's only a couple of people in the
Slytherin dorms, and none of them are people we need to worry about."
"Are you sure you're reading that thing right?" Ralph asked, plugging
his ring into the eye socket of the snake sculpture on the gigantic wooden
door. "Last I heard, you said you couldn't even remember how to get it to
work."
"Well, it's working, isn't it?" James replied testily. In truth, he was
worried about the accuracy of the map. He had remembered the phrase to
get the map to open and display the grounds, but as his dad had feared, the
castle had changed rather a lot since the map had been created by Moony,
Prongs, Padfoot, and Wormtail. Irregular chunks of the map were
completely blank, and each blank section was marked with a notation that
read redrawing required, please see Messrs. Prongs and Padfoot for

assistance. James could only guess that his grandfather and Sirius Black had
been the chief artists who'd plotted the map, but since both were long since
dead, there would apparently be no redrawing of the map to fill in the
rebuilt areas. The tiny names that marked the locations of everyone on
campus could still be seen moving here and there, but as they entered one of
the blank areas, their marker and name would flicker out. Fortunately, the
Slytherin quarters were under the lake, and therefore had been very little
damaged in the Battle of Hogwarts (Ralph had learned that only the main
entry had been destroyed in the siege). James could see the entire warren of
Slytherin rooms and halls on the Marauder's Map.
The snake sculpture asked its questions. Ralph announced himself and
explained who James and Zane were, and that they were friends. The
glowing green snake eye examined Zane and James for a long moment, and
then unlocked the complicated system of bolts and bars that secured the
door.
The three boys couldn't help skulking as they moved through the
apparently deserted Slytherin common room. The brackish green sunlight,
filtered by the lake water above the stained-glass ceilings, filled the room
with murky shadows. The fire was a dull red glow in the gigantic fireplace,
which was sculpted in marble to resemble an open snake's mouth.
"Nothing like reading a good book in front of gaping doom," Zane
murmured, passing the fireplace. "So where do they keep their broomsticks,
Ralph?"
Ralph shook his head. "I told you already, I don't know. I just know
there isn't a common locker or anything, like the Gryffindors or
Ravenclaws. Most of these guys don't trust each other all that much.
Everybody has a private closet with a special magical key. Besides, their
brooms aren't here now, anyway, are they? They've all got them out at the
Quidditch pitch."
"We aren't here to grab it now," Zane answered, peering around the
common room. "We're just here to scope out where they might hide them."

Even in the middle of a spring day, the Slytherin rooms were a pall of
shifting green dimness. "Lumos," James said, illuminating his wand and
holding it aloft. "This hall goes back to the boys' quarters, right Ralph?"
"Yeah. The girls' rooms are on the other side, up those stairs."
Zane threaded through the furniture of the common room, aiming for
the stairs. "Panty raid in the Slytherin girls' quarters. I'm on it."
"Wait," James said sharply. "It'll be charmed, you know. No boys are
allowed in any of the girls' quarters. You go up there, it'll be sure to set off
some sort of alarm."
Zane stopped, glancing at James, and then turned back to the stairway.
"Drat. They thought of everything, didn't they?"
"Besides," Ralph said from across the room, "they're called 'knickers'
around here."
"You say 'potato', I say 'patata'…," Zane muttered.
"Can we get back to why we're here, after all?" James said as loudly as
he dared. "We're supposed to be looking for ways to get to Tabitha's broom.
Even if all we can do is figure out where she keeps it."
"Believe it or not," Zane said primly, "that's what I was thinking of.
For all we know, she sleeps with the thing. Even if she doesn't, you can bet
she keeps it near enough to guard. That means getting into the girls'
quarters, doesn't it?"
James shook his head. "Not possible. I'm beginning to see how helpful
it was for my dad to have Aunt Hermione as part of his crew. He could've
sent her up to check things out. We're pretty much stuck, though."
As James finished speaking, a noise came from the stairway. The three
boys froze guiltily, looking toward the stairs. There was a shuffling of small

feet, and then a tiny house-elf came down balancing a basket of rumpled
clothing on its head. The elf stopped, seeing the three boys staring at it.
"Many pardons, masters," the elf said, and James could tell by the
timbre of its voice that it was a female. "Just collecting the washing, if you
please." Her bulbous eyes flicked between the three of them. She seemed
disconcerted to have elicited such keen interest. James realized she was
probably used to being completely ignored, if she was seen at all.
"Not a problem, Miss…" Zane said, affecting a small bow and taking a step
back from the stairs.
The elf didn't move. Her eyes followed Zane's movement with
increasing consternation. "Excuse me, master?"
"Your name, Miss?" Zane replied.
"Ah. Er. Figgle, master. I apologize, master. Figgle isn't accustomed to
masters and mistresses speaking to her, master." The elf seemed to be nearly
vibrating with nervousness.
"I'm sure that is true, Figgle," Zane said understandingly. "You see, I'm
a member of an organization you may have heard of. We're called the…
uh…" Zane glanced back at James, his eyes wide. James remembered
telling Zane and Ralph about Aunt Hermione's equal rights for elves
organization.
James stuttered, "Oh. Yeah, S.P.E.W. The Society for the Promotion of,
uh, Elfish Welfare?"
"Yes, what he said," Zane said, spinning back to Figgle, who flinched.
"S.P.E.W. You've heard of us, no doubt. We help those who elf themselves."
"Figgle hasn't, master. Not a bit. Figgle has loads of work, master."
"That's exactly the point, my dear Figgle. We at S.P.E.W. are working

to lessen that load. In fact, as an act of good faith, I'd like to help you now.
Please, might I help you carry that?"
Figgle looked positively horrified. "Oh, no, master. Figgle couldn't!
Master shouldn't mock Figgle, sir!"
James could see where Zane was heading with this charade, but was
doubtful it would get anywhere. House-elves, especially those who worked
amongst the Slytherins, were often mistreated and tricked by their masters.
Figgle looked as if she was about to burst into tears from fear.
Zane knelt down, bringing himself eye-level to the trembling house-elf
on the second step of the stairs. "Figgle, I'm not going to hurt you or get you
into trouble. I promise. I'm not even a Slytherin. I'm a Ravenclaw. You
know Ravenclaws?"
"Figgle does, master. Figgle collects the Ravenclaws' wash on
Tuesdays and Fridays. Ravenclaws use less scent than Slytherins, master."
The elf was babbling, but she seemed a bit calmer.
"I'd like to help you, Figgle. Surely there is more to carry. May I carry
it for you?"
Figgle pressed her lips together very hard, obviously caught on the
knife edge between her fear of a mean prank and her duty to do what she
was told. Her tennis ball-sized eyes studied Zane, then, finally, she nodded
once, quickly.
"Excellent, Figgle. You're a good elf," Zane said soothingly. "There is
more laundry upstairs, isn't there? I see you're piling it there by the door. I'll
gather the rest for you." He made to step forward onto the stairs.
"Oh, no, master! Wait!" Figgle said, raising her hand. The basket on
her head wobbled a bit and she steadied it easily. "Master will break the
boundary. Figgle mustn't let the others see she is being helped." Figgle
jumped lightly down the last two steps and turned toward the stairs. She
raised her hand and snapped her fingers. Something changed about the

doorway. James would have sworn that something like a light had been
turned off, although the actual lighting in the room hadn't changed. "Now
master can go up. But please, master…" Again, Figgle seemed tortured on
the edge of fear and obedience. "Please, master mustn't touch anything but
the basket. Then Figgle will take all the wash to the basements. Please?"
She seemed to be pleading to get this over with and be gone as soon as
possible.
"Of course," Zane answered, smiling. With only the slightest pause, he
put his foot on the first step. Nothing happened. "I'll be right back, guys,"
Zane said over his shoulder, then trotted up the steps.
James let out a pent breath and heard Ralph doing the same. Figgle
watched Zane tramp up the stairs, then glanced worriedly back at James and
Ralph. Ralph shrugged at her and smiled. It was, James thought, a rather
ghastly smile. Figgle didn't seem to notice. She weaved through the
furniture, balancing the huge basket easily, and then tipped it onto a large
pile near the door.
"James," Ralph said quietly, "the map."
James nodded and opened the Marauder's Map again. He looked first
toward the upper right area of the map, where a set of neat drawings
illustrated the Quidditch pitch and grandstands. Dozens of names were
crammed together there, most in and around the grandstands, but a few
swooped around the pitch. The Slytherin practice session was still going on,
although there seemed to be fewer people on brooms at the moment. They
were probably gathered on the ground nearby, talking strategy or
something. He glanced over the names ranged between the pitch and the
grandstands. There was Squallus, Norbert, Beetlebrick, and a few others
James didn't know.
Figgle raised her hands in the same gesture James had seen the houseelves in the Great Hall use to gather up the tablecloths. The pile of laundry
clumped into a large ball and a bed sheet cocooned around it, the four
corners tying at the top. Figgle tossed a small puff of pink powder onto the
gigantic ball of laundry and snapped her fingers again. The ball of laundry

vanished, presumably to reappear in the basements. She looked nervously at
the stairs.
"Well?" Ralph asked James in a tight, worried voice.
"I can't see Tabitha," James answered, trying to keep his voice calm.
"Or Philia Goyle. They aren't out on the pitch anymore as far as I can see."
"What? Well, where are they?"
"I don't know. They seem to be off the map at the moment."
Figgle was looking at them, her eyes wide and alert. She seemed to
sense something was even more wrong than it had been a minute ago.
James studied the Marauder's Map keenly, watching the huge blank spots to
see if Goyle and Corsica would appear out of them. He kept a sharp eye on
the blank spot at the door to the Slytherin quarters.
"Oh, no," he said, his eyes widening. "Here they come! What are they
doing here now?"
"Get rid of the map!" Ralph said, his face going pasty white. "Come
on! Zane!" he called up the steps. There was no answer.
Figgle's expression had gone from alarm to raw panic. "Mistress
Corsica is coming! Figgle has done an awful thing! Figgle will be
punished!" She bolted for the stairs, snapping her fingers as she went. There
was that sudden sensation of change, as if an invisible light had popped
back on, and James knew that the Boundary Charm over the stairs was in
place again. There was a clatter of footsteps and muffled voices both from
upstairs as well as from the front door of the common room. James balled
the Marauder's Map roughly and jammed it into his open backpack. Ralph
threw himself onto the nearest couch, trying to affect a scene of lazy
indolence. The door swung open just as James re-shouldered his backpack
and turned.
Tabitha Corsica and Philia Goyle stepped through the doorway. Their

eyes fell on James and both of them went silent. Tabitha was dressed in a
sport cloak and black capris, her broomstick over her shoulder. Her hair was
in a neat ponytail, and even though she had, only minutes before, been
swooping over the Quidditch pitch on her unusually magical broom, she
appeared as cool and fresh as a tulip. She spoke first.
"James Potter," she said mildly, having almost instantly recovered
from her surprise at seeing him. "What a pleasure."
"What are you doing here?" Philia demanded, scowling.
"Philia, don't be rude," Tabitha said, moving into the room and passing
James breezily. "Mr. Potter is as welcome among us as I'm sure we would
be amongst the Gryffindors. If we don't have goodwill during these difficult
times, what have we got? Good afternoon, Mr. Deedle."
Ralph croaked something from the couch, looking remarkably
awkward and uncomfortable. Philia continued to stare hard at James, her
expression openly hostile, but she remained silent.
"It's a shame about the Gryffindor Quidditch team," Tabitha called
from a corner of the room as she hung up her cloak. "We always love a
Gryffindor versus Slytherin match for the tournament, don't we, Ralph? I'm
sure it pains your friends not to be out scrimmaging with us as we speak,
James. Please give them our sympathies. By the way…," Tabitha crossed
the room again, heading toward the stairs to the girls' sleeping quarters, "I
saw several of the Ravenclaw players out at the pitch studying our drills.
Interesting that your friend, Zane, wasn't among them. You haven't seen
him, have you?" She tapped her broomstick on the floor idly, watching
James' face.
James shook his head, not daring to speak.
"Hm," Tabitha murmured thoughtfully. "Curious, that. Nevertheless.
Come, Philia."

James watched, horrified, as Tabitha and Philia began to climb the
steps. He thought furiously, trying to invent a quick diversion, but nothing
came.
"Sod off!" a pair of muffled voices suddenly squeaked.
Both Tabitha and Philia stopped in their tracks. Philia, on the first step,
whipped around angrily. Tabitha, ahead of her, turned much more slowly, a
look of polite wonderment on her face.
"Did you say something?" she asked James slowly.
James coughed. "Er, no. Sorry. Got a, uh, frog in my throat."
Tabitha watched him for a long moment, then tilted her head slightly
and narrowed her eyes at Ralph. Finally, she turned away and disappeared
up the rest of the stairs with Philia following, glancing back furiously. After
a few moments, their footsteps could be heard from above. There were no
angry screams or sounds of struggle.
"Grotty blighter!" quacked the muffled voices again.
"That crazy loon!" Ralph rasped, jumping up and grabbing his bag.
"What's he doing?"
"Come on!" James said, lunging toward the door. "If he's still up there,
we can't help him."
They both ran out into the hallway and threaded their way around
several random corridors before finally stopping. Panting and hearts
pounding, they dug their rubber ducks out of their bags, each examining his
own even though they were identical. Two words were scrawled on the
bottom of the ducks in black ink: Laundry room!
"That crazy loon!" Ralph said again, but he was almost laughing with
relief. "Figgle just took him down to the cellars with the rest of the dirty
sheets! I say we leave him there."

James grinned. "No, let's go get him before they try to stick him in the
wringer. He probably deserves it, but first, I want to know what he might
have found out."
The two boys ran to find the washrooms in the cellars. James stopped
only once to ask directions from an annoyingly observant servant in a
painting of a gaggle of dining knights.

"I hardly had two minutes to look around before Figgle came up the
stairs like a cannonball," Zane told James and Ralph when they found him
in the washrooms. "She threw a handful of pink dust at me, and then pow!
I'm down here."
Ralph was looking around in awe at the enormous copper vats and the
clanking machinery of the washers. Elves bustled around them, ignoring the
three boys completely as they moved through the hive of their basement
work space. Two elves on a catwalk above the vats were dumping
wheelbarrows of powdered soap into the frothing water. White flakes filled
the air and stuck like snow in the boys' hair.
"Trust me, this all gets a lot less interesting after two minutes or so,"
Zane said tersely. "Especially when the Lollipop Guild here won't let you
leave." Three elves were clustered around Zane, looking at him with
obvious hostility.
"Figgle brings a human down to the washrooms, we keeps him until
someone explains why," the oldest and grumpiest elf said in a gravelly
voice. "S'policy. Humans interfering with elf work is against Hogwarts
Code of Conduct and Practices, section thirty, paragraph six. So, then, who
be you two?"
James and Ralph exchanged blank looks. Ralph said, "We're his…

well, we're his friends, aren't we? We came to bring him back upstairs."
"Did you, then?" the elf said with a penetrating glare. "Figgle tells a
story about this human trying to do her work, she does. Says he was going
on about elf welfare and such bilge. She was fair upset. Can't 'ave that sort
of thing, you know. We gots a coalition agreement with the school."
"He won't do it again," James soothed. "He meant well, but he's a bit
dim about such things, isn't he? I'm sorry. He got out of our hands for a
minute. Won't happen again."
Zane acted offended, but stayed wisely silent. The head elf scowled
thoughtfully at James. James was used to elves being subservient and meek
or at least politely surly. Here, in their working realm, the rules appeared to
be quite different. The elves had a coalition agreement with the school, the
head elf had said. It almost sounded like they'd unionized, and that an
essential rule of the elf union was that only elves did elf work. Perhaps they
viewed it as job security. James wasn't sure if Aunt Hermione would view
this as an improvement or a setback.
Finally, the head elf grumbled, "I'm going against my better
judgments, you know. The three of yous are on probation. Anymore
interference with elfish protocol and I'll 'ave you before the Headmistress.
We gots a coalition agreement, you know."
"So I hear," Zane muttered, rolling his eyes.
"But you don't even know our names," Ralph pointed out. "How are
we on probation if you don't know who we are?" James elbowed him in the
ribs.
The head elf grinned at his fellows, who smiled back a bit
disconcertingly. "We're elves," he said simply. "Now off with yous, and let's
hope we don't see you again."
The corridors leading out of the washrooms were, not surprisingly,

small and short, with half-sized steps that forced James, Zane, and Ralph to
mince carefully as they climbed them.
"I don't know whether to congratulate you or kick you," Ralph said to
Zane. "You almost got us caught by Corsica and Goyle."
"But I did get into the Slytherin girls' sleeping quarters," Zane pointed
out with a grin. "How many people can say that?"
"Or would want to?" James added.
"Be nice or I won't tell you what I found."
"It better be good," said Ralph.
"It's not," Zane sighed. "The girls' quarters have big wooden wardrobes
alongside each bed. Only one of them was open, but I got a peek inside.
Let's just say I'm not wondering where Tabitha keeps her broom anymore."
They reached a larger door at the end of a flight of miniscule stairs.
James pushed it open, thankful to be out of the heat and noise of the
washrooms. "What do you mean?"
"Well, they're magical wardrobes, of course, although they don't lead
to any fairy wonderlands. The one I looked into looked like a combination
vanity and walk-in closet. Seemed like a boutique had exploded in there, to
tell you the truth. One of those really froofy ones, but with a gothic-vampire
flair to it. There was a bottle of vanishing cream on the vanity, and from the
looks of it, I don't think the vanishing part was a metaphor."
"All the girls have a wardrobe like that?" Ralph asked.
"Sure looked like it."
James frowned. "Our chances of getting into the Slytherin girls'
quarters again are pretty much zero. And even if we could, how would we
even know which wardrobe was Corsica's, much less even get it open?"

"I told you this was going to be right impossible," Ralph reminded
James.
"Smelled like my grandma's dresser in there, too," Zane said.
"Will you let off with the details?" James exclaimed. "This is serious.
We still don't know where the Hall of Elder's Crossing is or when Jackson
and Delacroix are planning to bring the elements together. For all we know,
it could be tonight."
"So?" Ralph said. "Like you said, they can't do anything without all the
relics."
Zane sighed, turning sober. "Yeah, but if they try it and nothing works,
then they'll hide the rest of the relics and we'll never get to them."
Ralph threw up his hands. "Well? There's got to be another way, then. I
mean, she has to take the broom out of her wardrobe sometimes, right? We
saw her with it today. What if we nick it somehow during a Quidditch
match or something?"
Zane grinned. "I like that. Especially if we can do it when she's a hundred
feet or so in the air."
"Impossible again," James said in frustration. "Ever since my dad's
day, there've been protective spells all around the pitch to keep people from
interfering with matches. There were a few instances where dark wizards
tried to use spells to hurt him or throw him off his broom. Once, a bunch of
Dementors swarmed right onto the pitch. Ever since, there've been
boundary areas set up by the officials. No spells can get in or out."
"What's a Dementor?" Ralph asked, his eyes widening.
"You don't want to know, Ralph. Trust me."

"Well, then, looks like we're back to square one," Zane said dourly.
"I'm all out of ideas."
Ralph stopped suddenly in the middle of the corridor. Zane bumped
into the larger boy, stumbling backwards, but Ralph didn't seem to notice.
He was staring hard at one of the paintings lining the corridor. James
noticed it was the one they had stopped at earlier to ask for directions to the
laundry room. The very observant servant in the rear corner of the painting
had caught James' attention on the way down, but only as someone they
could get directions from. James had become almost inured to the random,
watchful characters in the paintings all over Hogwarts. The servant stared
sullenly out at Ralph as the knights in the painting hoisted their tankards
and turkey drumsticks, slapping each other happily on their partially
armored backs.
"Oh, great," Zane said, rubbing his shoulder where he'd run into Ralph.
"Look what you've done, James. Now Ralph's obsessed with every fifteenth
painting. And not even the good ones, if you ask me. You two are the
weirdest art lovers I've ever met."
James took a step closer to the painting as well, studying the servant
standing in the shadowy background with a large cloth over his shoulder.
The figure took a half-step backward, and James felt sure that it was trying
to blend further into the dim recesses of the painted hall. "What, Ralph?" he
asked.
"I've seen that before," Ralph answered in a distracted voice.
"Well, we just stopped at this painting not ten minutes ago, didn't we?"
"Yeah. It looked familiar then, too, but I couldn't place it. He's standing
different now…"
Ralph suddenly dropped to one knee, flinging his backpack onto the
floor in front of him. He unzipped it quickly and dug inside, almost
frantically, as if worried that whatever inspiration had struck him would flee

before he could confirm it. He finally produced a book, gripped it
triumphantly, and stood up again, riffling toward the back. Zane and James
crowded behind him, trying to see over Ralph's broad shoulders. James
recognized the book. It was the antique potions book his mum and dad had
given Ralph for Christmas. As Ralph flipped through the pages, James
could see the notes and formulae that crowded the margins, crammed
alongside doodled drawings and diagrams. Suddenly, Ralph stopped
flipping. He held the book open with both hands and slowly raised it so that
it was level to the observant servant in the background of the painting.
James gasped.
"It's the same dude!" Zane said, pointing.
Sure enough, there, in the right-hand margin of one of the last pages of
the potions book, was an old pencil sketch of the observant servant. It was
unmistakably the same figure, right down to the hook nose and the sullen,
stooped pose. The painted version recoiled from the book slightly, and then
crossed the hall as swiftly as it could without actually running. It stopped
behind one of the pillars lining the opposite side of the painted hall. The
knights at the table ignored it. James, watching intently, narrowed his eyes.
"I knew it looked familiar," Ralph said triumphantly. "He was in a
different position when we first came across him, so I didn't place it straight
off. Just now, though, he was in exactly the same pose as the drawing in this
book. Now, that is weird."
"Can I see?" James asked. Ralph shrugged and handed the book to
James. James bent over it, flipping back to the front of the book. The
margins in the first hundred pages were filled mostly with notes and spells,
many with sections scribbled out and rewritten in a different color, as if the
writer of the notes was refining his work. By the middle of the book,
though, drawings and doodles began to crowd in with the notes. They were
sketchy, but quite good. James recognized many of them. Here was a rough
sketch of the woman in the background of the painting of the king's court. A
few pages later he found two quite detailed drawings of the fat wizard with
the bald head from the painting of the poisoning of Peracles. Again and
again, he recognized the sketches as the characters in the paintings all over

Hogwarts, the secondary figures who'd been watching James and his friends
with avid, unconcealed interest.
"Amazing," James said in a low, awed voice. "All these drawings are
from paintings all over the school, you see?"
Ralph squinted at the drawings in the book, then back at the painting
again. He shrugged. "It's weird, but not all that amazing, is it? I mean, the
guy who owned this book was probably also a student here, right? Sounds
like he was a Slytherin, like me. That's why your dad gave me the book. So
whoever he was, he liked art. Lots of art lovers sketch from paintings. Big
deal."
Zane's brow furrowed as he looked back and forth between the
drawing of the observant servant and his painted equivalent, who was still
skulking near the pillars in the background. "No, these aren't just sketches,"
he said, shaking his head slowly. "These are the originals, or so close it's
impossible to tell the difference. Don't ask me how I know. I just know.
Whoever sketched these drawings was either a master forger… or he was
the actual artist."
Ralph thought about it for a moment, and then shook his head. "That
doesn't even begin to make sense. These paintings were painted at lots of
different times. No way one bloke was responsible for all of them. Besides,
a lot of these paintings are old. Way older than this book."
"It makes perfect sense," James said, clapping the potions book shut
and looking down at the cover. "Whoever painted these didn't paint the
whole paintings. Think about it: not a single one of these sketched
characters is of a dominant person in any of the paintings. Every one of
them is a drawing of some totally unimportant background character.
Whoever drew these just added the characters into existing paintings."
Zane cinched up the corner of his mouth and furrowed his brow. "Why
would anyone do that? It's like graffiti, but nobody would notice it except
the guy who painted it. What's the fun in that?"

James was also thinking hard. He nodded slightly to himself, looking
down at the old book in his hands again. "I think I have an idea," he said,
narrowing his eyes thoughtfully. "We'll find out for sure. Tonight."

"Come on, Ralph!" James complained in a harsh whisper. "Quit
tugging! You're yanking it up. You can see my feet!"
"I can't help it," Ralph moaned, crouching down as far as he could. "I
know you said your dad and his mates used to do this all the time, but one
of them was a girl, remember?"
"Yeah, and she didn't eat seven meals a day, either," Zane said.
The three of them shuffled down the darkened corridor, crammed
under the Invisibility Cloak. They'd met at the base of the staircases, and
apart from one tense moment when Steven Metzker, the Gryffindor prefect
and brother of Noah, had passed them in the hall singing slightly off key,
they had encountered no one. When they reached the intersection near the
statue of the one-eyed witch, James directed them to stop. The three of them
maneuvered clumsily into a corner and James opened the Marauder's Map.
"I don't see why all three of us need to do this anyway," Ralph
complained. "I trust you two. You could've just told me about it tomorrow
at breakfast."
"You seemed plenty excited about it when we planned this,
Ralphinator," Zane whispered. "You can't lose your nerve now."
"It was daytime then. And I wasn't born with any nerve, just so you
know."
"Shh," James hissed.

Zane bent over the map. "Is anyone coming?"
James shook his head. "No, looks safe. Filch is in his office
downstairs. I don't know if he ever sleeps, but for now, at least, the coast is
clear."
Ralph straightened up, pulling the Invisibility Cloak a foot off the
floor. "Then why are we under this thing at all?"
"It's tradition," James said without looking up from the map.
"Besides," Zane added, "what good's having an Invisibility Cloak if we
don't use it to float around the halls unseen every now and then?"
"There's nobody to see us, anyway," Ralph pointed out.
James directed them toward the right angle of the intersection and they
shuffled on. Soon enough, they came to the gargoyle guarding the stairway
to the Headmistress' office. James could tell it was watching their feet under
the raised cloak even though it remained perfectly still. James hoped that
the password hadn't changed since he'd accompanied Neville to the
Headmistress' office a few months earlier.
He cleared his throat and said quietly, "Er, Gallowater?"
The gargoyle, which was relatively new, having replaced the one that
had been damaged in the Battle of Hogwarts, stirred slightly, making a
sound like a mausoleum door grating open. "Is that the one with the forest
green field and the sky blue and red patterns?" it asked in a carefully
measured voice. "I can never remember."
James conferred in harsh whispers with Ralph and Zane. "Forest green
field? I don't even know what it is! It's just the word Neville used to get in!"
"How'd he answer the question, then?" Zane asked.

"It didn't ask him any questions!"
"It's a tartan pattern, I think," Ralph rasped. "My grandmum is mad
about them. Just say yes."
"Are you sure?"
"Of course I'm not sure. Say no, then! How should I know?"
James turned back to the gargoyle, which seemed to be staring fixedly
at James' shoes. "Er, yeah, sure."
The gargoyle rolled its eyes. "Lucky guess." It straightened and stood
aside, revealing the entry to the spiral staircase. The three boys shuffled
toward it and clambered onto the lower steps. As soon as all three were on
it, the staircase began to rise slowly, carrying them up with it. The hall
outside the Headmistress' office lowered into view before them, and they
stumbled into it, swearing and jostling each other under the cloak.
"That's it," Ralph said in an annoyed voice. He yanked at the cloak,
struggling out from underneath it, and then let out a stifled shriek. James
and Zane pulled the cloak off their heads and glanced around nervously,
looking for whatever had startled Ralph. The ghost of Cedric Diggory was
standing in front of them, smiling mischievously.
"You've really got to stop doing that," Ralph said breathlessly.
Sorry, Cedric said in his far-off voice. I was asked to be here.
"Who asked you?" James inquired, trying to keep the annoyance out of
his voice. The hair on the back of his neck was still prickling. "How would
anyone know we were coming here tonight?"
Cedric just smiled and then gestured toward the heavy door that led
into the Headmistress' office. It was shut tight. How'd you plan to get past
that?

James felt his face heat a little in embarrassment. "I forgot about that,"
he admitted. "Locked, is it?"
Cedric nodded. Don't worry about it. That's why I'm here, I guess. The
ghost turned and walked effortlessly through the door. A moment later, the
three boys heard the sounds of the lock being unbolted. The door swung
open silently and Cedric grinned, welcoming them in. James entered first,
and Zane and Ralph were surprised to see him turn immediately away from
the Headmistress' massive desk. The room was extremely dim but for the
reddish light of the banked fireplace. James lit his wand and held it up.
"Get that thing out of my face, Potter," a voice drawled quietly. "You'll
wake the rest with it, and I suspect that this is meant to be a private
conversation."
James lowered his wand again and glanced around at the rest of the
portraits. All of them were sleeping in various poses, snoring gently. "Yeah,
you're right," James agreed. "Sorry."
"So you deduced a version of the truth, I see," the portrait of Severus
Snape said, his black eyes locked on James. "Tell me what you believe you
know."
"It wasn't much of a deduction, really," James admitted, glancing at
Ralph. "He figured it out. He's got the book."
Snape rolled his eyes. "That dratted book has been more trouble than it
was ever worth. I should've destroyed it when I had the chance. Do
continue."
James took a deep breath. "Well, I knew something was going on when
I noticed all those characters in the paintings watching us. I also knew they
all looked a little familiar, even though they were all really different. I don't
think I'd have made the connection if Ralph hadn't shown me the drawings
in the potions book, though. I knew the book had belonged to a Slytherin
my dad had loads of respect for, so I thought of you and it all just came

together. You painted all those characters into the paintings all over the
school, and every one of them is a portrait of you, but in disguise. That's
how you've been watching us. You spread yourself out through all those
paintings. And since you are the original artist, nobody else can ever
destroy the portraits. It was your way of assuring you could always keep an
eye on things, even after death."
Snape studied James, scowling. Finally he nodded slightly. "Yes,
Potter, quite true. Few knew it, but I had some natural inclination toward
the task. Being adept at potions, mixing the necessary enchanted paints was
the simple part. It did take me quite some time to hone my rendering skills
enough to modify the paintings, but as with any other art, painting was
mainly a matter of practice and study. I agree with you, however, that you'd
have never made the connection if it weren't for my own blind arrogance in
allowing that book to continue to exist. I may have been a genius, but pride
has been the downfall of greater geniuses than myself. Nevertheless, it has
proved to be a very successful endeavor. I have been able to observe you
and the rest of this school's operations rather freely. So tell me: why do you
come to me now? To gloat over your luck?"
"No," James said firmly, and then paused. He didn't want to say what
he'd come to say. He was afraid Snape would laugh at him, or worse, refuse
their request. "We came… we came to ask for your help."
Snape's expression didn't change. He regarded James seriously for a
long moment. "You came to ask for help," he said, as if confirming he'd
heard James correctly. James nodded. Snape narrowed his eyes slightly.
"James Potter, I'd never have suspected it, but you have finally impressed
me. Your father's greatest weakness was his refusal to seek assistance from
those better and more knowledgeable than him. He always required their
help in the end, but usually to their great, and sometimes final, detriment.
You seem to have thrown off that weakness, albeit reluctantly. If you had
come to this realization a few weeks ago, we might not have had to rely on
pure fortune and good timing to save you from a fate worse than death."
James nodded again. "Yeah, thanks for that. I know it was you who
sent Cedric to help when we were going to open Jackson's case."

"Foolhardy and ignorant, Potter. You might've known better, although
I admit I'd have been surprised if you had. The robe is exceedingly
dangerous and you are stupendously negligent to keep it here. As much as I
am loath to admit it, you should turn it over immediately to your father."
"What do you know about the Merlin conspiracy, then?" James asked
excitedly, ignoring the rebuke.
"I know little more than you do, unfortunately, other than the wealth of
knowledge I've accumulated through my studies of the legend and the
multitude of previous attempts to facilitate the return of Merlinus
Ambrosius. A study I can assure you would've proven far more helpful to
you than your current ridiculous fantasies of capturing the Merlin staff."
"Why are they ridiculous?" Zane asked, stepping a bit closer.
"Ah, the jester speaks," Snape sneered in a low voice. "Mr. Walker, I
believe."
"It's a fair question," James said, glancing at Zane. "The staff is
probably even more dangerous than the robe. We can't let it be controlled by
the sorts of people who believe Voldemort was just some misunderstood
sweetie who wanted everybody to be pals."
"And who might these people be, then, Potter?" Snape asked silkily.
"Well, Tabitha Corsica, for one."
Snape regarded James with open contempt. "Typical Gryffindor
prejudice."
"Prejudice!" James exclaimed. "Whose house is it that believes that all
Muggle-born wizards are weaker stock than the purebloods? Whose house
invented the term 'mudbood'?"
"Don't ever say that word in front of me again, Potter," Snape said

dangerously. "You believe you speak of what you know, but let me save you
from your ignorance by reminding you that what you know is as limited as
it is one-sided. Easy judgments about individuals based on their house of
origin is another of your father's greatest mistakes. I'd hoped that you would
surpass that as well, based on your own choice of companions." Snape's
black eyes darted to Ralph, who had hung back, watching silently.
"Well, Ralph's different, isn't he?" James said weakly.
Snape responded quickly, his eyes still on the larger boy. "Is he?
Different from what, Mr. Potter? What, precisely, do you believe you know
about the members of Mr. Deedle's house? Or, dare I ask, Mr. Deedle
himself?"
"I know what the tree sprite told us," James said rounding on the
portrait, his voice rising in anger. "I know that there is a bloodline of
Voldemort alive in these halls even now. His blood beats in a different heart.
The heir of Voldemort is alive and he walks among us."
"And what makes you so certain," Snape said sharply, "that this heir is
a Slytherin? Or a male?"
James opened his mouth to answer, and then closed it again. He
realized that the dryad had never actually said either of those things. "Well,
it just… makes sense."
Snape nodded, the sneer creeping back into his face. "Does it? Perhaps
you haven't learned anything after all, then." Snape sighed, and he seemed
genuinely disappointed. "What did you come to ask, Potter? I see you are
determined in your course regardless of what I say, so let's get this over
with."
James felt small in front of the portrait of the former headmaster. Zane
and Ralph stood further back, and James knew it was his question to ask.
This was his battle more than it was theirs. His battle against the Merlin

conspiracy, yes, but more importantly, his battle against himself and the
shadow of his father.
He raised his eyes to Snape's black gaze. "If we can't get the Merlin
staff, I need to go to the Hall of Elder's Crossing. I need to stop them there,
before they can hide the staff and the throne forever."
James heard the movement of Zane and Ralph behind him. He turned
back to them. "I won't ask you two to come, but I'm committed. I have to
try to stop them."
Snape sighed hugely. "Potter, you really are just as foolish and
preposterously self-absorbed as your father. Turn the robe over. Give it to
your father or the Headmistress. They will know what to do. I will advise
them. You cannot possibly hope to manage this on your own. You've
impressed me once. Do try and accomplish that again."
"No," James said with conviction. "If I tell them, Jackson and
Delacroix and whoever else will get away. You know it just like I do. Then
two of the relics will be lost forever."
"Without all three together, the power of the relics is broken."
"But not destroyed," James insisted. "They are still powerful on their
own. We can't let them be used by those who'd try to continue Voldemort's
work. We can't risk them falling into the hands of Voldemort's heir."
Snape scowled. "If such a person exists."
"That's not a risk worth taking," James countered. "Where is the Hall
of Elder's Crossing?"
"You do not know what you're asking, Potter," Snape said
dismissively.
"We'll find out somehow, James," Zane said, stepping forward again.

"We don't need this old pile of paint to tell us. We've worked everything out
so far. We'll figure this out, too."
"You've survived on suspicious good fortune and the interference of
myself alone," Snape growled. "Do not forget your place, boy."
"It's true," Ralph said. James and Zane turned to look at him,
surprised to hear him speak. Ralph swallowed and went on, "We have done
pretty well so far. I don't really know who you are, Mr. Snape, but as
grateful as we are for you helping us when James put on the robe, I think
James is right. We need to try to stop them and get the rest of the relics. You
were a Slytherin, and you said that the things they say about Slytherins
aren't always right. Well, one of the things they say about Slytherins is that
we always just look out for ourselves. I don't want that to be true. I'm with
James and Zane, even if we fail. No matter what."
Snape had listened to this sudden speech from Ralph with a steely eye
and a tight frown. When Ralph finished, he glanced at all three of the boys
in succession, and then heaved another sigh. "You're all completely daft,"
he said flatly. "This is a pointless and destructive fantasy."
"Where's the Hall of Elder's Crossing?" James asked again.
Snape regarded him, shaking his head minutely. "As I said, Potter, you
do not know what you're asking."
Zane spoke up. "Why not?"
"Because the Hall of Elders' Crossing is not a place, Mr. Walker. You,
of all people, should have recognized that. If any of you had been paying
even a shred of attention for the last several months, you'd know it. The
Hall of Elders' Crossing is an event. Think about it for a moment, Mr.
Walker. Elders' Crossing."
Zane blinked. "Elders," he said thoughtfully. "Wait a minute. That's
what the astronomers of the Middle Ages called the astrological signs. The
planets. They called them 'the Elder Ones'."

"So the Hall of Elder's Crossing…" James concentrated, and then
widened his eyes in revelation. "The alignment of the planets! The Hall of
Elders' Crossing is when all the planets cross each other in their paths.
When they… make a hall!"
"The alignment of the planets," Ralph agreed in an awed voice. "It's
not a place, but a time."
Snape stared hard at all three boys. "It's both," he said resignedly. "It's
the moment the planets align, and it's the place that all three of the relics of
Merlinus Ambrosius are brought together. That's when and where the return
of Merlin can only be accomplished. That is his requirement. And unless I
am greatly mistaken, if you mean to go through with this foolhardy plan of
yours, you have less than one week."
Zane snapped his fingers. "That's why the voodoo queen's been drilling
us to work out the exact moment of the alignment! She said it would be a
night we'd never forget, and she meant it! That's when they mean to bring
the relics together."
"The Grotto Keep," James whispered. "They'll do it there. The throne
is already there." The other two boys nodded. James felt flushed with fear
and excitement. He looked at the portrait of Severus Snape. "Thanks."
"Don't thank me. Take my advice. If you plan to go through with this, I
will not be able to help you. No one will. Don't be a fool."
James backed away, extinguishing his wand and pocketing it. "Come
on, you two. Let's get back."
Snape watched as James consulted the Marauder's Map. It wasn't
Snape's first encounter with the map. On one occasion, the map had insulted
him fairly cheekily. Having assured themselves that Filch was still in his
office, the three crowded back under the Invisibility Cloak and shuffled
back through the door of the Headmistress' office and into the hall. Snape
considered waking Filch, who he knew was sleeping in his office with a

half empty bottle of fire whiskey on his desk. One of Snape's self portraits
resided in a hunting painting in Filch's office, and Snape could easily use
that painting to alert Filch to the three boys' sneaking. Reluctantly, he
decided not to. Like it or not, such petty tricks gave him little pleasure
anymore. The ghost of Cedric Diggory, who Snape had come to recognize
before anyone else, closed the door behind the boys and shot the bolt.
"Thank you, Mr. Diggory," Snape said quietly, amidst the snores of the
other paintings. "Feel free to accompany them back to their dormitories. Or
not. I don't much care."
Cedric nodded to Snape. Snape knew the ghost didn't like to talk to
him. Something about a ghost talking to a painting seemed to disturb the
boy. Nothing technically human on either end, Snape figured. Cedric
dismissed himself and walked through the locked wooden door.
One of the paintings near Snape stopped snoring.
"He isn't precisely like his father, is he?" a thoughtful, older voice said.
Snape settled back into his portrait. "He's only like him in the worst of
ways. He's a Potter."
"Now who's passing easy judgments?" the other voice said with a hint
of teasing.
"It's not an easy judgment. I've watched him. He's as arrogant and
foolish as the others that bore his last name. Don't pretend you don't see it."
"I see that he came to ask for your help."
Snape nodded grudgingly. "One can only hope that that instinct has a
chance to mature. He asked for help only when he ran out of other options.
And he didn't, you'll notice, actually take any of my advice."
The older voice was silent for a moment, and then asked, "Will you tell
Minerva?"

"Perhaps," Snape said, considering. "Perhaps not. For now, I will do as
I've done all along. I will watch."
"You believe there is a chance he and his friends might succeed, then?"
Snape didn't answer. A minute later, the older voice spoke again. "He
is being manipulated. He doesn't know it."
Snape nodded. "I assumed there was no point in telling him."
"You're probably right, Severus. You have an instinct for such things."
Snape replied pointedly, "I learned when not to talk from the master,
Albus."
"Indeed you did, Severus. Indeed you did."

15.

The Muggle Spy

Martin J. Prescott was a Reporter. He always thought of the word as if
it was capitalized. For Martin, being a Reporter was more than a job. It was
his identity. He wasn't just another face reading from a teleprompter or
another name next to a dateline. He was what the producers in the age of
the twenty-fourhour news cycle called 'a personality'. He accented the news.
He framed it. He colored it. Not in any negative way, or so he firmly
believed. He simply added that subtle dash of flair that made news into
News, in other words, something people might want to watch or read. For
one thing, Martin J. Prescott had the look. He wore white button-down
shirts with jeans, and he usually had his shirt sleeves rolled up a bit. If he
wore a tie, it was invariably of an impeccable style, but loosened just a tad:
enough to say yes, I've been working extremely hard, but I respect my
viewers enough to maintain a degree of professionalism. Martin was thin,
youngish, with sharp, handsome features and very dark hair that always
looked windblown and fabulous. But, as Martin was proud of saying to the

attendees at the occasional Press Club breakfast, his appearance wasn't what
made him a Reporter. It was his sense of people, and of news. He knew how
to plug the one into the other in a way that produced the biggest emotional
jolt.
But the last thing that made Martin J. Prescott a Reporter was that he
loved the story. Where the other high-paid and high-profile news faces had
long since assembled a team of lackeys to tramp far and wide, collecting
footage and filming interviews while they themselves huddled in their
dressing rooms reading about their ratings, Martin prided himself in doing
all his own travel and research. The truth of it was that Martin enjoyed the
reporting, but what he absolutely loved was the chase. Being a member of
the press was like being a hunter, except that the former aimed with a
camera rather than a gun. Martin liked to stalk his prey himself. He
delighted in the pursuit, in the blurry jostle of handheld camera footage, the
shouted, perfectlytimed question, the long stakeout of a courtroom back
door or a suspicious hotel room. Martin did it all himself, often alone, often
filming himself in the act, providing his viewers breathless moments of
high tension and confrontation. No one else did it like him, and this had
made him famous.
Martin had, as they say of the very best Reporters, a nose for news. His
nose told him that the story he was chasing right now, if it panned out, if he
could simply provide the real, unadulterated footage, was quite possibly the
story of a lifetime. Even now, crouched among the brush and weeds, dirty
and salty with two days' worth of sweat, his fabulous hair matted and soiled
with twigs and leaves, even after all the setbacks and failures, he still felt
this was the story that would cement his career. In fact, the harder he'd had
to work for it, the more doggedly he'd pursued it. Even after the ghost. Even
after being kicked out of a third story window by a homicidal kid. Even
after his harrowing brush with the gigantic spider. Martin viewed setbacks
as proof of value. The harder it was, the more it was worth pursuing. He
took a grim satisfaction in knowing that, had he merely hired a team of
investigators to check this out, they'd have turned back months ago, when
they'd first met the strange, magical resistance of the place, without a
solitary blip of a story. This was the kind of story that could only be told by
him. This, he told himself with satisfaction, was anchorman material. No

more field reports. No more special interest segments. If this panned out,
Martin J. Prescott would be able to pave his own way in any major
newsroom in the country. But why stop there? With this under his belt, he
could anchor anywhere in the world, couldn't he?
But no, he told himself. One mustn't think of such things now. He had
a job to do. A difficult and outrageously demanding job, but Martin took
pleasure in the sense that the hardest part was behind him. After months of
plotting and arranging, planning and observing, the time had finally come
for the big payoff, for all the bets to be called in. Granted, if this last phase
of the hunt didn't work out exactly as planned, he'd walk away with
nothing. He'd been unable to get any usable, convincing footage on his own,
except for the handheld camera video of that incredible flying contest a few
months back. That might have been enough, but even that had been lost,
sacrificed--reluctantly!--to the gigantic spider during his escape through the
woods. It didn't do to dwell on failures, though. No, this would work. It
would go exactly as planned. It had to. He was Martin J. Prescott.
Still crouched at the perimeter of the forest, Martin checked the
connections of his cell phone. Most of his field gear had gone completely
buggy ever since he made it through the forest. His Palmtop barely worked
at all, and when it did, it exhibited some very strange behavior. The night
before last, he'd been trying to use it to access his office computer when the
screen suddenly went entirely pink and began to display the lyrics to a
rather rude song about hedgehogs. Fortunately, his camera and cell phone
had worked relatively well until the incident with the spider. His phone was
nearly all he had left now, and despite the fact that the display screen
showed a strange mixture of numbers, exclamation marks and
hieroglyphics, it did seem to be maintaining a connection. Satisfied, Martin
spoke.
"I'm huddled outside the castle at this moment, hidden in the arms of
the forest that has been my occasional home during these last grueling
months. Up until now, I have simply watched, careful not to disturb what
might only be a simple country school or a boarding facility, despite the
reports of my sources. Still, I am confident that the time has finally come
for me to approach. If my sources are wrong, I will merely be met with

puzzlement and that rare brand of careful good humor that is the purview of
the Scottish countryside. If, however, my sources prove correct, as I
suspect, based on my inexplicable experiences so far, then I may well be
walking into the clutches of my own doom. I am now standing. It is
midmorning, about nine o'clock, but I see no sign of anyone. I am leaving
the safety of my hiding place. I am entering the grounds."
Martin crept carefully around the edge of the ramshackle cabin near
the forest. The enormous, shaggy man he'd often spied in and around the
cabin was not anywhere in sight. Martin straightened, determining to be
bold about his initial approach. He began to cross the neatly cropped field
between the cabin and the castle. In truth, he did not believe he was in grave
peril. He had an innate sense that the greatest dangers were behind him, in
that creepy and mysterious forest. He had indeed camped on the fringes of
that forest, far on the side opposite the castle, where the trees seemed rather
more normal and there were fewer unsettling noises in the night. Still, his
travels back and forth through the densest parts of that forest had been
strange, to say the least. Apart from the spider, which he had only escaped
by sheer good luck, he hadn't actually seen anything. In a sense, he thought
it might have been better if he had. A known monstrosity, like the spider, is
far easier to deal with than the unknown phantoms conjured by Martin's
imagination in response to the strange noises he'd heard on those long
woodland walks. He'd been shadowed, he knew. Large things, heavy things,
had followed him, always off to the left or right, hidden just behind the
density of the trees. He knew they were watching him, and he also sensed
that, unlike the spider, they were intelligent. They might have been hostile,
but they were certainly curious. Martin had almost dared to call out to them,
to demand they reveal themselves. Finally, remembering the spider, he'd
decided that, after all, maybe an unseen monster that is merely curious is
better than a seen monster that feels provoked.
"The castle, as I have mentioned, is positively huge," Martin said into
the small microphone clipped to his lapel. The microphone was connected
to the phone on his belt. "I've travelled much of this continent and seen
quite a variety of castles, but I've never seen anything so simultaneously
ancient and yet immaculately maintained. The windows, apart from the one
I was forced through those months ago, are beautifully sturdy and colorful.

The stonework here doesn't show so much as a crack…" This wasn't
entirely true, but it was true enough. "It is a beautiful spring day,
fortunately. Clear and relatively warm. I am not hiding myself at all as I
cross to the enormous gates, which are open. There… there seems to be a
gathering over to my right, on a sort of field. I… I can't quite tell, but it
looks as if they are playing football. I can't say that I expected that. They
don't seem to be paying me any attention. I am continuing to the gates."
As Martin entered the gates, he finally began to be noticed. He
slowed, still maintaining a steady course onward. His goal was simply to
get as far into the castle as possible. He had purposely left his still camera
behind. Cameras, in nearly every circumstance, incite resistance. People
with cameras get thrown out of places. Someone simply walking into a
place, walking confidently and purposely, may be met with curiosity, but
they are not usually stopped. At least, not until it is too late. The courtyard
was dotted with young people moving here and there in knots. They wore
black robes over white shirts and ties. Many carried backpacks or books.
The ones nearest Martin turned to watch him past, mostly out of curiosity.
"There are… there are what appear for all the world to be… school
pupils," Martin said quietly into his microphone, sidling past students as he
worked across the courtyard. "Young people in robes, all school age. They
seem surprised at my presence, but not hostile. In fact, as I am now
approaching the entryway into the castle proper, it appears that I have
elicited the attention of virtually everyone. Excuse me."
This last was said to Ted Lupin, who had just appeared in the doorway
with Noah Metzker and Sabrina Hildegard. All three of them stopped
talking instantly as the strange man in the white shirt and loosened tie
slipped between them. The quill in Sabrina's hair wobbled as she turned to
watch him.
"Who's he talking to?" Ted said.
"And who the ruddy hell is he?" Sabrina added. The trio turned in the
open doorway, watching the man work his way carefully into the entry hall.
Students parted for him, recognizing immediately that this man was rather

out of place. Still, no one seemed particularly alarmed. There were even a
few puzzled grins.
Martin went on speaking into his microphone. "More and more of
what I must, for the time being, call students. There are dozens of them
around me at the moment. I am moving through a sort of main hall. There
are… chandeliers, great doorways. Statues. Paintings. The paintings… the
paintings… the paintings…" For the first time, Martin seemed at a loss for
words. He forgot the students gathering around him, watching him, as he
took two steps toward one of the larger paintings lining the entry hall. In the
painting, a group of ancient wizards were clustered around a large crystal
ball, their white beards illuminated in its glow. One of the wizards noticed
the staring man in the white shirt and tie. He straightened and scowled.
"You're out of uniform, young man," the wizard exclaimed sternly. "You
look a fright. I daresay you have a leaf in your hair."
"The paintings… the paintings are…," Martin said, his voice an octave
higher than normal. He coughed and gathered himself. "The paintings are
moving. They are… for lack of a better term, like painted movies, but alive.
They are… addressing me."
"I address equals, young man," the wizard said. "I command the likes
of you. Begone, ruffian."
There was a smattering of laughter from the crowding students, but
there was also a growing sense of nervousness. Nobody was ever amazed at
the moving paintings. This man was either a nutter of a wizard, or he was…
well, it was unthinkable. A Muggle could not get into Hogwarts. The
students formed a large circle around him, as if he was a mildly dangerous
animal.
"The students have hemmed me in," Martin said, turning around, his
eyes rather wild. "I'm going to attempt to break through, however. I must
move further in."
As Martin proceeded, the perimeter of students broke apart easily,
following him. There was a murmuring now. Nervous chatter followed the

man, and he began to raise his voice.
"I'm entering a large chamber. Quite high. I've been here before, but
late at night, in the dark. Yes, this is the hall of moving staircases. Very
treacherous. Remarkable mechanics at work here, and yet no sound of
machinery at all."
"What's he saying about machinery?" someone in the crowding
students called. "Who is this bloke anyway? What's he doing here?" There
was a chorus of confused responses.
Martin pushed on, turning past the staircases, almost shouting now.
"My presence is beginning to cause some resistance. I may be stopped at
any moment. I… I am bypassing the stairs."
Martin turned a corner and found himself in the midst of a group of
students playing Winkles and Augers in a bright alcove. He stopped
suddenly and recoiled as the auger, an old Quaffle, stopped three inches
from his face, floating and turning slowly.
"Oi, what're you thinking just walking right into the middle of the
sodding match, you?" one of the players called, yanking his wand up and
retrieving the Quaffle. "Dangerous, that is. You need to watch yourself."
"Flying… things!" Martin squeaked, straightening himself and
smoothing his shirt frantically. "I… wands. Actual magical wands and
levitating objects! This is perfectly remarkable! I've never seen…!"
"Hey now," another of the Winkles and Augers players said sharply.
"Who is this? What's he going on about?"
Someone else yelled, "Who let him in? He's a Muggle! Got to be!"
"It's the man from the Quidditch pitch! The intruder!"
The crowd began to yell and jostle. Martin ducked past the Winkles
and Augers players, losing some of the pursuing crowd. "I'm pressing in

further still. Corridors leading everywhere. Here is… er, as far as I can tell,
it is a hall of classrooms. I'm entering the first one…"
He burst into the first classroom on his right, followed by a stream of
confused, yelling students. The room was long and recessed. The students
attending the class turned in their seats, seeking the source of the
interruption.
"Relatively normal, it seems, on the surface, at least," Martin yelled
over the growing din, scanning the room. "Students, textbooks, a teacher of
some kind, who… who, who, whooo…"
Again, Martin's voice rose and he seemed to be losing control of it.
His eyes boggled and he ran out of breath. His mouth continued to work,
making hoarse raspy sounds. At the front of the class, the ghostly Professor
Binns, whose grasp on the temporal realm was tentative at best, had not yet
noticed the interruption. He droned on, his voice high and chiming, like
wind in a bottle. The professor finally noticed the gasping form of Martin J.
Prescott and stopped, frowning. "Who is this individual, might I ask?"
Binns said, peering over his ghostly spectacles.
Martin finally dragged a great gulp of air. "A ghooooossst!" he
declared tremulously, pointing at Binns. He began to totter. Just as the
students near the doorway were shoved roughly aside by the advancing
figures of Professor Longbottom and Headmistress McGonagall, flanked by
Ted and Sabrina, Martin fell over in a dead faint. He landed hard across two
desks at the rear of the room. The students occupying the desks threw their
hands up, lunging to get out of the way. A bottle of ink fell to the floor and
shattered.
Headmistress McGonagall approached the man swiftly and stopped a
few feet away. "Can anyone please inform me who this man is," she said in
a strident voice, "and what he is doing fainting dead away in my school?"
James Potter shouldered his way to the front of the crowd. He looked
at the man collapsed across the desks. He sighed deeply and said, "I think I
can, ma'am."

Fifteen minutes later, James, McGonagall, Neville Longbottom, and
Benjamin Franklyn bustled into the Headmistress' office, with Martin
Prescott stumbling between them. Martin had regained consciousness
halfway to the office, and had instantly shrieked in horror at the realization
that he was being levitated along the corridor by Neville. Neville, in turn,
had been so startled by Martin's shriek that he'd nearly dropped him, but
had recovered in time to lower the man fairly gently to the floor. Apart from
James' explanation that the intruder was the very same man he'd
accidentally knocked through the stained-glass window and later seen on
the Quidditch pitch, the trip to the Headmistress' office had progressed with
very little conversation. Once the door to her office had closed behind them,
McGonagall spoke up.
"I only want to know who you are, why you are here, and most
importantly, how you managed to gain entry," she said furiously, stalking
behind her desk but remaining upright. "Once we have resolved that, you
will be removed forthwith, and with nary a glimmer of any memory of what
you have seen, I can promise you that. Now speak."
Martin swallowed and glanced around at the assembly. He saw James
and grimaced, remembering the shattering glass and the sickly fall
afterward. He took a deep breath. "First of all, my name is Martin J.
Prescott. I work for a news program called Inside View. And second of all,"
he said, returning his gaze to the Headmistress, "I have been injured upon
these grounds. I don't wish to make a legal matter of it, but you must be
aware that it is entirely within my rights to pursue compensation for those
injuries. And somehow, I don't get the impression that this domicile is
insured, exactly."
"How dare you?" McGonagall exclaimed, leaning over her desk and
meeting Martin's eyes. "You break into this castle, trespass where you have
neither the right nor the understanding to carry yourself…" She shook her
head, and then went on in a lower voice. "I will not be baited by threats.

You are obviously of Muggle origin, so I will practice a modicum of
patience with you. Answer my questions willingly or I will be more than
happy to resort to more straightforward means of interrogation."
"Ah," Martin said, trying to sound confident despite the fact that he
was trembling visibly. "You must mean something along the lines of this."
He reached into his shirt pocket and produced a small vial. James
recognized it as the one he had seen in this man's hand when he'd
encountered him in the Potions closet. "Yes. I see by your faces that you
know what this is. Took me a time to figure it out. Veritaserum, indeed. I
put two drops into a coworker's tea and I couldn't get him to shut up for an
hour. I learned things about him I hope I live to forget, I'll tell you."
"You tested an unknown potion on an unsuspecting person?" Franklyn
interrupted.
"Well, I had to know what it did, didn't I? I figured two drops wouldn't
hurt anyone." He shrugged and lifted the bottle again, looking at the light
through it. "Truth serum. If it was dangerous, you'd hardly have kept it right
there on the shelf where just anyone could get to it."
McGonagall's face was white with fury. "In these halls, we rely on
discipline and respect rather than cages and keys. Your friend is fortunate
indeed that you didn't happen upon a vial of Narglespike or tharff sap."
"Don't try to intimidate me," Martin said, obviously quite intimidated
in spite of himself. "I just wanted to show you that I know your tricks. I've
been watching and studying you for quite some time. You won't be getting
me to drink any of your potions or performing any brainwashing tricks on
me. I'll answer your questions, but only because I expect you to answer
some of mine, as well."
Neville fingered his wand. "And why, pray tell, do you believe we
won't just bring in an Obliviator, have your mind wiped of all memory of
this place, and drop you off at the nearest turnpike?"
Martin tapped the tiny microphone clipped to his lapel. "This is why.

My voice, and everything all of you are saying, is being sent through my
phone to a computer at my office. Everything is being recorded. In a small
town not three kilometers from here is a film crew and a group of experts in
a variety of fields whom I have asked to assist me in my investigation--"
"Investigation!" the Headmistress repeated incredulously. "Absolutely
and unequivocally out of the question!"
Martin overrode her. "One of those individuals is an agent of the
British special police."
James felt a palpable silence descend over the room at the mention of
the Muggle police. He knew from conversations he'd heard between his dad
and other Ministry officials that it was one thing to Obliviate a single
person or even a contained group, but things could get extremely
complicated if any official Muggle investigative bureaus became involved.
"It pays to be owed favors in high places," Martin went on. "It took
quite a lot to get a ranking agent out here, but I am confident that this is the
sort of story one calls in large favors for. There is no official charge yet, of
course. Merely curiosity, since there is no record of any establishment of
this size in the area. The point is this: if they do not receive a phone call
from me in the next two hours with directions for how to get their gear onto
the grounds, they are to return immediately to the office, retrieve the
recording of this conversation and everything that has occurred to me here
so far, and broadcast it however they see fit. It may seem preposterous to
most people, I grant. A school in a castle in the dead of nowhere teaching
kids how to work real magic, wands and all. But your secret will be out,
nevertheless. Your students may attend here, in this secret location, but they
do sometimes go home, do they not? And I am willing to bet those homes
are nowhere near as protected as this. There will be investigations. You will
be revealed. One way or another."
Headmistress McGonagall's face was as hard and white as a
tombstone. She merely stared at the skinny man in the white shirt. Franklyn
broke the silence.

"My good sir, you cannot comprehend what you are asking." He took
off his glasses and stepped in front of Martin. "Your plan would undeniably
result in the closing down of this school and possibly many others like it.
All those present, and many, many more, would lose their livelihoods and
educations. More importantly, what you are insisting upon is the reintroduction of the entire magical world into the world of Muggles, whether
either is prepared for that or not. And to what end? Not for the betterment
of mankind, I expect. No, I suspect that your aspirations are far more…
myopic. Please, do think before you continue. There are forces at work here
that you do not comprehend, although you may well be acting on behalf of
some of them. I sense that you are not a bad man, or at least not yet a very
bad man. Think, my friend, before you make a choice that will condemn
you in the eyes of generations."
Martin listened to Franklyn's words, and seemed to actually consider
them. Then, as if snapping out of a daze, he said, "You're Benjamin
Franklin, aren't you?" He grinned and waggled a finger at Franklyn. "I
knew you looked familiar! That's amazing. Look, I know you're not in a
position to discuss this right now, but I have two words for you:
exclusive… interview. Think about it, right?"
"Mr. Prescott," the Headmistress said, her voice stony. "You cannot
expect us to make a decision regarding this in a matter of minutes. We
simply must discuss this."
"Indeed," Neville added. "Even if we do agree to your conditions, you
must conduct yourself upon our terms. How that can be of any benefit to us
considering the sheer magnitude of what you are undertaking, I do not yet
know. But regardless, we must have some time."
"As I said," Martin replied, seeming far more comfortable now that he
believed he had the upper hand, "you have two hours. Well, ninety-four
minutes, actually."
"Answer me this, Mr. Prescott," Franklyn said, sighing. "How did you

get onto the school grounds? Before we go any further with this charade,
we must know that."
Martin sighed lightly. "Got a chair? It's rather a story."
Neville pointedly produced his wand. Never taking his eyes off Martin,
he pointed the wand at a wooden chair in the corner and levitated it rather
brusquely. The chair shot forward, nearly scooping Martin off his feet. The
man plopped gracelessly onto the seat and the chair thunked to the floor.
"Do continue," Neville said, half sitting on a corner of the
Headmistress' desk. McGonagall settled into her chair, but remained ramrod
straight. Franklyn and James continued to stand.
"Well, I first got the letter telling me about this place in September of
last year," Martin said, leaning forward and rubbing his backside while
staring angrily at Neville. "The View offers a hundred thousand pound
reward for proof of paranormal activity, and the gentleman that wrote the
letter seemed to think that this Hogwarts place would offer such proof in
spades. Honestly, we get thousands of letters a year from people hoping to
collect the reward. They include everything from blurry pictures of tossed
pie plates to actual slices of toast with the faces of saints burned onto them.
The View never actually had any plans to reward the money. They like a
nice dash of the inexplicable in the news from time to time, but when it
comes to belief, most of them are the most cynical bunch of hardheads
imaginable.
"Me, on the other hand, I'm the sort of guy who wants to believe. It
wasn't the tone of the letter that got my attention, though. It was the little
item the sender had included in the envelope. A little box containing
something called a 'Chocolate Frog'. I expected it might have some novelty
spring-snakes in it, at best, so being a sport, I went ahead and opened it.
Sure enough, there was a perfect little chocolate frog inside. I was just
about to grab it and take a bite when the thing lifted its head and looked
right at me. I just about dropped the box. Next thing I know, the frog leaps
straight out of the box and onto my desk. It was a hot day, and the thing had
just come in with the post. Good thing, too, cause the little bugger had

gotten a little melty. Left little chocolaty frog footprints all over that night's
copy. Three good hops, then the frog just putters out. I was afraid to touch
it, but five minutes later, it still hadn't moved. I had time to determine that it
had just been a normal frog covered in chocolate. Some joke. Thing
probably had suffocated from the stuff, and from the heat of being in the
box. So I went ahead and scooped it back up and sure enough, the thing was
just chocolate. Good chocolate, too, I might add.
"I still might've forgotten all about it, to tell you the truth. No matter
how open-minded a person might think they are, being confronted with
something truly inexplicable still tends to shut down the old belief circuits.
If it weren't for those little chocolaty frog footprints on my papers, I might
never have mustered the resolve to be here. I kept them in the bottom of my
desk, and every time I looked at them, I remembered that little bugger
hopping across my desk. I couldn't get it out of my mind. So I emailed the
guy who'd sent it. Nice trick, I told him. Got any more?
"He emails me back next day and says if I really want to see tricks, I
just need to follow the signal he'd send me. Sure enough, the day after that,
there's another package from him. A little one. Contained everything I
needed to lock onto the signal here. There was no way those faithless turds
in management would equip me with a crew to investigate the origin of a
jumping chocolate frog, even if I showed them the froggy footprints.
Fortunately, I had some vacation time coming, so I decided to give it a go
on my own. A little camping out would do me good. So I packed my own
cameras and caught a train.
"Getting into the general vicinity was easy enough, of course. I spent
the first night on the other side of the forest, knowing by the signal that I
was within a few kilometers of the source. Next day, I was on foot by dawn.
I followed the direction I knew I was supposed to go, but sure enough,
every time, I'd find myself heading right back out the way I'd come. It never
seemed like I'd turned around or even veered off my course. It was as if I
had succeeded in getting to the opposite side of the forest, but somehow the
planet had turned around right underneath me. I tried using a compass, and
it'd tell me I was dead-on as well, until all of a sudden I'd be stepping right

back out into my camp and the needle would spin away as if it'd forgotten
what it was for.
"This went on for three solid days. I was getting frustrated, I'll tell you
that. But I was also getting determined, because I knew something was
trying to keep me out. I wanted to know what. So the next day, I got out my
little package and located the coordinates. This time, though, I kept it in
front of me the whole time, watching that little flashing dot. Soon enough,
the ground seemed to force me away. I'd run into an old creek bed with
sides too steep to climb. I'd angle away only to run into a deadfall of trees
or a low cliff. Everything seemed to be working to turn me off my course. I
pushed on, though. I climbed and scurried. I pushed through thorns and the
thickest undergrowth I've ever seen. Then, even gravity seemed to be
working against me. I kept feeling as if the earth was tilting up beneath me,
trying to throw me backwards off it. No such thing was happening, of
course, but it was a dreadful sensation nonetheless. I became nauseous and
unaccountably dizzy. But I followed my direction, crawling at the last.
"And then, suddenly, the sensations were gone. The forest seemed to
snap back to normal, or at least what passes for normal in this neck of the
woods. I had made it through. Ten minutes later, I came out for the first
time on the edge of the clearing overlooking this very castle. I was stunned,
needless to say. But what amazed me far more than the castle was the scene
that I very nearly walked into the midst of.
"There, not twenty feet before me, was the largest man I had ever
seen. He looked almost like a grizzly bear that'd been taught to walk
upright. But then, standing next to him…" For the first time in his story,
Martin paused. He swallowed, obviously shaken by the very memory.
"There was something so monstrously huge that I at first thought it must be
a kind of dinosaur. It had four legs, each the size of a pillar. I raised my eyes
and saw that it was, in fact, two creatures standing near each other, and they
were both human-shaped. The tallest one's head was above the treetops. I
couldn't even see its face. I scrambled back into a hiding place, certain
they'd heard me, but it seemed not to be so. The smallest one, the one that
looked like a walking bear, talked to the other two, and they answered, sort
of. Their voices vibrated the ground. Then, to my horror, they turned and

headed towards me, into the forest. The largest one's foot came down right
next to me, shaking the earth like a bomb and leaving a footprint three
inches deep. Then they were gone."
Martin drew a huge sigh, obviously content with his telling of the tale.
"And that was when I knew I had found it. The greatest story of my life.
Possibly the greatest story of this century." He looked around as if he
expected applause.
"There is one small detail you have failed to explain to my
satisfaction," Headmistress McGonagall said coldly. "This device you
mentioned. It was somehow able to point you to this school. I must know
what it is and how it works."
Martin raised his eyebrows, and then chuckled and sat up. "Oh, yes.
That. It's been acting pretty wonky ever since I got here, but at least it
maintained the signal. A simple GPS device. Er, please forgive me. You are
probably unfamiliar with the term. A global positioning system device. It
allows me to locate any point on earth within a meter or so. Very helpful bit
of, er, Muggle magic, if you will."
James spoke for the first time since entering the room. "But how did
you pinpoint the school? How would that device know where to find it? It's
unplottable. Not on any map."
Martin turned to look at him, his brow furrowed, apparently uncertain
whether he should even deign to answer James. Finally, seeing that
everyone else in the room expected him to respond, Martin stood up. "Like
I said, I was sent the coordinates. They were provided by someone on the
inside. Really, very simple."
Martin reached into the pocket of his jeans and pulled something out.
James knew what it was even before he saw it. He had known it somehow
even before he'd asked the question. His heart sank as if through the very
floor.
Martin flourished a Gamedeck. It was a different color than Ralph's,

but of exactly the same make. He plunked it unceremoniously onto the
Headmistress' desk. "Wireless uplink for online competition, including chat
capability. Pretty standard stuff. So anybody here go by the screen name
'Austramaddux'?"

"You can't do this to me!" Martin exclaimed as Neville led him
unceremoniously into the Room of Requirement, which had arranged itself
into a rather quaint turret-top prison cell, complete with a barred window, a
cot, a bowl of water and a crust of bread on a plate. "This is unlawful
imprisonment! It's an outrage!"
"Think of it as field research," Neville instructed politely. "We have
much to discuss, and after your ordeals in the forest, we thought you might
like a bit of a breather. Take a load off, friend."
James, who was standing in the hall behind Neville, couldn't help
smiling a little. Martin saw him, scowled angrily, and made to shove past
Neville. Neville whipped out his wand so fast that James barely saw his
robes twitch. "I said," Neville repeated with low emphasis, not quite
pointing his wand at Martin, "take a load off. Friend."
James' smile faltered. He'd never seen Neville Longbottom so intense.
Of course, James knew the stories of how Neville had cut off the head of
Voldemort's snake, Nagini, but that was before James had been born. In all
his memory of the man, Neville had been a kindly figure, soft-spoken and a
bit clumsy. Now Neville's wand hand was so immobile and purposeful that
it might have been carved out of marble. Martin blinked at Neville, saw
something in the man's posture and the set of his face that he didn't like, and
backed up. The back of his knees struck the cot and he sat down hard.
Neville pocketed his wand and stepped back into the hall, pulling the door
of the Room of Requirement shut behind him. Martin, seeing the wand put
away, immediately jumped up and started to yell again, but his voice was
cut off as the door slammed shut.

"You know, we do have dungeons, Madam Headmistress," Neville said
in his normal voice.
Seeing the door closed, Headmistress McGonagall turned on her heel
and walked briskly down the corridor as the others followed. "We have
some rather antique torture devices as well, Professor Longbottom, but I
believe this will suffice for the moment. We only need to hold him until we
receive word from the Ministry of Magic about whatever recourse we may
or may not have against the dilemma Mr. Prescott has foisted upon us. In
the meantime, Mr. Potter, I must ask you: do you know anything about the
game device that has apparently led this… person into our midst?"
James swallowed as he struggled to keep up the Headmistress' pace.
He opened his mouth to answer, but nothing came. "Er, well…"
Neville touched James on the shoulder as they walked. "We all saw
your face turn as pale as the moon when Prescott produced the GameDeck
device. You looked almost like you expected it. Is there something you
know that might help us, James?"
James decided there was no point in trying to protect Ralph. It wasn't
his fault, anyway. "My friend has one. He's a first year like me, but he's
Muggle-born. He didn't know it might be dangerous to have here. None of
us did, really. I was surprised it even worked here."
"He used it to communicate with someone in the Muggle community?"
Neville asked quickly.
"No! As far as I know, he never used it at all! As soon as he got here,
his housemates saw it and gave him a load of trouble about it. They're
Slytherins, so they were all ragging on him about counterfeit magical
devices, about how it was an insult to the purebloods and all that."
The Headmistress turned a corner, heading back toward her office. "I
assume you are speaking of Mr. Deedle? Yes. I am confident enough that he

is not at the head of this particular conspiracy, although this device of his
might be. Does it perhaps broadcast some sort of signal?"
James shrugged. "You'd be better off asking Ralph about that, or even
my other friend, Zane. He seems to know a lot about how these things
work. But I don't think it sends out information on its own. Ralph says
somebody else took his GameDeck and used it. Another Slytherin, we
think. Zane was able to tell that somebody had spent some time on it, and
that they'd used the name Austramaddux. They hadn't played the game at
all, though. They must have just been using it to send information. Probably
the coordinates that that guy said he used to locate the school using his GPS
thing."
"You're quite sure about this, are you, James?" Neville said, following
the Headmistress back into her office. "Have you considered that Mr.
Deedle might have used this device on school grounds and unwittingly
shared information that he shouldn't have? It is possible that this tale of the
stolen GameDeck is a ruse."
James shook his head firmly. "No way. Not Ralph. It never even
occurred to him, or any of us, that the thing might be used to lead people
here. He just knew it made his Slytherin mates angry."
"We're all forgetting one important thing," McGonagall said, lowering
herself tiredly into her chair. "Even if Mr. Deedle or this unknown borrower
of the device did attempt to share information about this school with a
Muggle, the Vow of Secrecy would prevent them."
Professor Franklyn, who had remained in the Headmistress' office to
fiddle with the GameDeck, replaced the device on the desk and stared at it,
apparently unable to make anything of it. "How does this vow work,
precisely, Madam Headmistress?"
"It's quite straightforward, Professor. Every student must sign the vow,
proclaiming they will not knowingly reveal any information regarding the
existence of Hogwarts to any Muggle individual or agency. If they do, the
magical properties of the vow will engage, preventing any such

communication. This might mean the Langlock jinx or any other curse that
would disable the individual's ability to share information. In this case, we
might assume that the user of the device might experience a fusing of the
fingers or paralysis of the hand, anything that would prevent them from
entering any dangerous information into this device."
Franklyn was thoughtful. "We use a similar means at Alma Aleron.
The wording of the vow must be very specific, of course. No loopholes.
Still, it does seem apparent that someone was indeed able to use such a
device to communicate very specific information about this school. My
guess is that each of these gaming devices is equipped with a tracker that
corresponds to the global positioning mechanism Mr. Prescott spoke of.
Whoever used Mr. Deedle's device was apparently able to send the
geographical coordinates of one GameDeck to another. Mr. Prescott merely
needed to enter that information into his GPS device and follow it very
carefully. Despite Mr. Prescott's obvious Muggle nature, this made him a
sort of haphazard SecretKeeper. He can, if he so wishes, share the secret of
this school's location with anyone else he wishes. Whether they are able to
get past the school's unplottability zone is another question, though. Not
everyone is quite as persistent as he is. This might explain why he needs our
help to bring in his entourage."
"We cannot allow such a thing to happen, of course," Neville said,
looking to the Headmistress.
"I'm not entirely certain we can prevent it," she said heavily. "Our Mr.
Prescott is indeed an extremely tenacious individual. He knows enough
already to do us great harm. Even if we were to discover the whereabouts of
his crew, Obliviate them all and send them back, they would discover the
recording that has been made of all Mr. Prescott has seen so far. He would
inevitably return, and perhaps next time, it will occur to him to bring live
cameras rather than just a telephone. I see no recourse but to allow him to
go on with this investigation of his and hope to talk him out of broadcasting
it."
Neville shook his head. "I have more confidence that we could talk the

merpeople out of living in the lake than that we could convince this sodding
twit not to broadcast his prize story."
Franklyn adjusted his tiny glasses and looked at the ceiling. "Of
course, there are more, er, wholesale methods of dealing with this kind of
thing, Madam Headmistress. We could simply place the Imperius Curse
upon Mr. Prescott. That way we could arrange for him to send his crew
away and even accompany him back to his offices to help him destroy any
record of this visit. Once that was accomplished, we could feel free to
Obliviate Mr. Prescott with no fear of a repeat performance."
McGonagall sighed. "This is not the sort of decision we are exactly
authorized to make, and frankly, I am glad of that. The Ministry of Magic
has been notified of the situation and I am assured they will instruct us on
the proper course within the hour. I expect to hear from your father directly,
Mr. Potter, and at any moment."
As if on cue, a woman's voice spoke up from the fireplace. "Greetings
and salutations. This is an official communication of the Ministry of Magic.
Can we be assured that this is a secure assembly?"
McGonagall stood and moved around her desk to face the fireplace. "It
is. These with me are the only persons on the grounds at present fully aware
of what is happening, although by this point, the whole of the school must
know that we have a Muggle individual among us. His entry was hardly
subtle."
The face in the banked coals of the Headmistress' fireplace looked
around at Neville, James, and Professor Franklyn. "I am the undersecretary
of Miss Brenda Sacarhina, Co-Chair of the Council of Ambassadorial
Relations. Please stand by to be connected." The face vanished.
James saw McGonagall's face tighten just the tiniest bit when the
undersecretary mentioned Miss Sacarhina. Only a few seconds passed
before the face of the prim woman appeared in the fireplace. "Madam
McGonagall, Professors Franklyn and Longbottom, greetings. And young
Mr. Potter, of course." An ingratiating smile appeared on Sacarhina's lips

when she spoke to James. The smile disappeared almost as suddenly as it
had appeared, as if it was something she could turn on and off like a light.
"We have conferred about the situation that has thrust itself upon you and
have reached a conclusion. As you may guess, we have prepared
contingencies for just such an occurrence. Please tell Mr. Prescott that he
may contact his associates. We find that there is no recourse but to allow his
investigation to proceed, however, no one other than Mr. Prescott is to be
allowed onto Hogwarts grounds until a delegation from the Ministry arrives
to oversee them. We will arrive no later than tomorrow evening, at which
time, we will assume all negotiations with Mr. Prescott and his crew."
"Miss Sacarhina," McGonagall said, "are you suggesting that the
Ministry may well allow this man to perform his investigation and
broadcast it to the Muggle world?"
"I'm sorry, Madam McGonagall," Sacarhina said sweetly, "I didn't
mean to imply that, or anything else. You may rest assured that we are
prepared to deal with this situation, regardless of the method we choose. I'd
hate to burden you with any more detail than you've already been forced to
deal with."
The Headmistress' face became rather pink. "Burden away, Miss
Sacarhina, for I can promise you that the future of this school and its
students is hardly the sort of detail I'm likely to dismiss."
Sacarhina laughed lightly. "My dear Minerva, I suspect that the future
of Hogwarts, the students, and yourself is as secure as ever. As I mentioned,
we have contingencies for such events. The Ministry is prepared."
"Forgive me, Miss Sacarhina," Franklyn interjected, taking half a step
forward, "but you'd have us believe that the Ministry of Magic has prepared
contingencies for a Muggle investigative reporter penetrating the school of
Hogwarts on foot with a camera crew at the ready and intentions to
broadcast the secrets of the magical world to Muggles worldwide?"
Sacarhina's indulgent smile tightened. "I'd have you believe, Mr.

Franklyn, that the Ministry has prepared emergency response techniques for
dealing with a wide variety of confrontations. The specifics do not matter."
"I beg to disagree, Miss. The specifics of this instance have revealed a
rather large security breach that could, at this point, be utilized by virtually
anyone. This school can no longer be considered secure until this breach
has been addressed."
"One thing at a time, Professor. We appreciate your concern, but I
assure you that we are fully equipped to deal with the matter in its entirety.
If, however, you feel that the safety of yourself and your staff are at risk, we
could possibly arrange for your early departure. This would cause us great
disappointment and be quite a disruption to the school…"
"My concern, Miss Sacarhina," Franklyn said coolly, removing his
glasses, "is for the security of everyone within these walls, and for the
security of the magical and Muggle worlds in general."
"Again with the hyperbole," Sacarhina smiled. "Please, all of you, put
your minds at ease. I, along with Mr. Recreant, will arrive tomorrow
evening. We will meet with this Mr. Prescott and I am quite confident-positive, even--that we will reach a mutually amicable arrangement. You
needn't bother yourselves with it any further."
"What about my dad?" James asked.
Sacarhina blinked, apparently mystified. "Your father, James?
Whatever do you mean?"
"Well, don't you think he ought to be here along with you and Mr.
Recreant?"
Sacarhina smiled her ingratiating smile again. "Why, your father is
Head of the Auror Department, James. There is no dark magic involved in
this unfortunate set of circumstances, so far as we can tell. There'd be no
reason to bother him with it."

"But he's dealt with this man before," Neville said. "He and James
witnessed him on the Quidditch pitch last year and led the search to try to
capture him."
"And a fine job he did," Sacarhina said, her smile snapping shut. "That
was his duty at the time. This, however, as you cannot fail to realize, is an
ambassadorial issue. Harry Potter's skills may be varied, but
ambassadorship is not one of them. Besides, Mr. Potter is currently on
assignment and not to be interrupted. We do have, however, specialists in
exactly this sort of negotiation. Along with myself and Mr. Recreant, we are
arranging for another ambassador to join us. He is an expert in Mugglemagical relations. We expect him to spearhead our dealings with Mr.
Prescott and his crew, and we have full confidence that he will serve all
parties quite well."
McGonagall waved her hand dismissively. "What shall we do with Mr.
Prescott until your arrival, Miss Sacarhina?"
"Make him comfortable. Allow him to make his telephone call. Other
than that, as little as possible."
"Surely you do not mean for us to allow him free access to the school,"
the Headmistress said, as if it were a statement rather than a question.
Sacarhina seemed to shrug in the fireplace. "Whatever harm he might
be able to do by observing is surely less than the harm he could do if he
brought Muggle legal charges against us. We must, for the moment, treat
him as a guest. Besides, it sounds as if he's seen quite a lot already."
McGonagall's face was unreadable. "Very well, then. Good afternoon,
Miss Sacarhina. We will look forward to your arrival tomorrow evening."
Sacarhina smiled again. "Indeed. Until then."
The face vanished from the fire. The Headmistress reached for her
poker and poked studiously at the embers for several seconds, strewing

them so that no hint of the face remained. She replaced the poker, turned
her back to the fire, and said, "Insufferable bureaucratic poppycock."
"I'll be happy to lodge Mr. Prescott in the Alma Aleron quarters,"
Franklyn said, putting his glasses back on. "I'd prefer to keep a close eye on
him, anyway. I suspect we can keep him busy enough to prevent him
causing any more trouble."
"I don't like this at all," Neville said, still looking at the fireplace.
"Harry should be here. Prescott himself isn't a dark wizard, of course, but
there is something extremely dodgy about how he got here at all. Somebody
led him here, and that person somehow circumvented the Vow of Secrecy. I
don't care what Sacarhina says, I'd feel a lot better with a decent Auror
looking into it."
The Headmistress opened her door. "At this point, it is out of our
hands. Professor Franklyn, your idea is as good as any. Let us escort Mr.
Prescott to the Alma Aleron quarters. And despite what Miss Sacarhina
might believe, I'd prefer for us to arrange for Mr. Prescott to be quite busy
for the next twenty-four hours. The less time he has to explore the school,
the better. Mr. Potter, please feel free to return to your classes, and although
I suspect I cannot ask you not to speak of this to Mr. Walker and Mr.
Deedle, I'd be quite happy if you managed not to talk of it to anyone else.
Especially Ted Lupin or Noah Metzker."
As James followed the adults out of the office, a quiet voice spoke to
him from the wall. "Going to be quite a busy day tomorrow, Potter."
James stopped and glanced at the portrait of Severus Snape, not
entirely sure what he meant. "I guess so. At least for the Headmistress and
everybody."
Snape's black eyes bored into him. "Answer me truthfully, Potter: are
you still laboring under the delusion that Tabitha Corsica is in possession of
the Merlin staff?"
"Oh," James said, "look, say what you want, but it makes sense. We're

going to get it from her, too, one way or another."
Snape spoke quickly. "Don't be a fool, Potter. Turn over what you
have. Give it to the Headmistress. Surely you see how dangerous it is to
keep the robe, especially now."
James blinked. "Why? What happens now? Does it have something to
do with this Prescott fellow?"
Snape stared hopelessly at James. "You don't see it, then," he sighed.
"There is a very good reason why your father, dull as he is, is being kept
from accompanying tomorrow's delegation. There are members of the
Progressive Element even within the Ministry, although they do not call
themselves by that name. Sacarhina is one of them. Recreant may be as
well, although he is not really in charge. Either she is taking full advantage
of a very suspicious coincidence or this is all her plan from the beginning."
"What? What's her plan?" James asked, lowering his voice and
stepping closer to the portrait.
"The details are unimportant. All that matters is that unless you secure
the Merlin robe by tomorrow night, all will very likely be lost."
"But it is secure," James replied. "We captured it already. You know
that. We have to get the Merlin staff now."
"Forget the staff!" Snape hissed angrily. "You are allowing yourself to
be manipulated! If I had even the slightest hope that you'd be any better at it
than your father was, I'd have taught you Occlumency by now. When I tell
you to secure the Merlin robe, I mean you must turn it over to those who
know how to bind it, not just hide it. The enemy has the other two relics.
The robe wishes to be reunited with them. You will not be able to prevent
that, Potter. Don't be the arrogant fool your father was!"
James scowled. "My father was never the arrogant fool you think he
was, and I'm not either. I don't have to listen to you. Besides, tomorrow isn't
the alignment of the planets. It's the next night. Zane told me himself."

Snape grinned maliciously. "So trusting are you both. Where, pray tell,
does Mr. Walker get his information?"
"He's in Constellations Club," James replied angrily. "Madame
Delacroix's been using everybody in the club to help her pinpoint the exact
timing of the alignment."
"And did it never occur to you that she might have deliberately altered
the information just enough to mislead those too ignorant to notice? She has
known the day of the alignment for the past year. She only needed help to
ascertain the hour. Even you have realized that she is involved in the Merlin
plot. Do you expect that she would desire dozens of stargazing students to
be swarming the grounds on the very night she plans to skulk off to
facilitate the return of the most dangerous wizard of all time?"
James felt sheepish. Of course she wouldn't. He just hadn't thought of
it. He opened his mouth to speak, but could think of nothing to say. Snape
went on. "She has misled all of you by exactly one day. The Hall of Elders'
Crossing will not occur Thursday night, but Wednesday. Tomorrow, Potter.
You have been duped, and you are being duped still. There is no time for
any more delusions of grandeur. You must turn over the robe. If you do not,
you will fail and our enemies will succeed in their plan."
"James?" It was Neville. He poked his head into the Headmistress'
doorway. "We lost you, it seems. Did you forget something?"
James mind was running at full speed. He stared blankly at Neville for
a few seconds, and finally gathered himself. "Er, no. No, sorry, I was just…
thinking out loud."
Neville glanced at the portrait of Snape. Snape sighed and crossed his
arms. "Go on, Longbottom, and take the boy with you. I've no use for him."
Neville nodded. "Come along, James. You still have time to make your

afternoon classes if you hurry. I'll walk with you and explain your
tardiness."
James followed Neville out of the room, thinking only of what Snape
had told him. They had only one day, one day to get the Merlin staff from
Tabitha. One day before the Hall of Elders' Crossing, and it just happened to
be the very same day that Sacarhina was coming to deal with Prescott. As
he rode down the moving spiral stairs and came out into the corridor below,
it occurred to James that Snape was right about one thing: tomorrow was
indeed going to be a very busy day.

16. Disaster of the Merlin Staff
The next morning, James, Ralph, and Zane entered the Great Hall for
breakfast and headed purposefully toward the far end of the Gryffindor
table.
"Are you sure about this?" Ralph asked as they crossed the Hall. "We
can't go back after this, you know."
James pressed his lips together, but didn't answer. They crowded in
with Noah, Ted, and the rest of the Gremlins, all of whom were seated
conspicuously in a tight knot.

"Ah, the very man," Ted announced as James squeezed between him
and Sabrina. "We were just taking bets on why you asked all of us to meet
you for breakfast. Noah thinks you want to officially join the ranks of the
Gremlins, in which case we've prepared a series of grueling challenges for
you to complete. My favorite is the one where you don Sabrina's old Yule
gown and run through the school singing the Hogwarts tribute as loud as
you can. There's plenty more, although Damien's challenges tend to involve
too many slugs and mustard for my taste."
James grimaced. "To tell you the truth, the reason I asked to talk to all
of you is that Ralph, Zane, and I have something we need to ask of you." To
their credit, none of the Gremlins seemed surprised. They simply leaned in
a little as they continued to eat. James didn't exactly know where to begin.
He had awoken that morning with the simple realization that, on their own,
he, Ralph, and Zane would not succeed in capturing the Merlin staff in one
day. They had no plan. The portrait of Snape had been some help, but Snape
didn't even believe that Tabitha Corsica had the staff. So who could they
turn to? He acted on his first impulse. He could ask the one group of people
in all the school who were experts in the subtle arts of chaos and
tomfoolery. It might take too long to explain everything to Ted and his
fellow Gremlins, and even if he could, they still might not agree to help, but
it was his best, last hope. James sighed hugely and stared at his glass of
pumpkin juice. "We need your help to… to borrow something."
"Borrow something?" Noah repeated, his mouth full of toast. "What?
Money? A cup of sugar? A decent haircut? Doesn't sound like you need us,
exactly."
"Quiet, Metzker," Ted said mildly. "What is it you want to 'borrow',
James?"
James took a deep breath and then simply said it. "Tabitha Corsica's
broom."
Damien coughed into his juice. All the other Gremlins glanced at
James with widened eyes. All except Ted. "Whatever for?" Sabrina asked in
a low voice. "Tonight's the tournament match between Ravenclaw and

Slytherin. Is that it? Are you trying to ruin Slytherin's chances? I admit that
there's something highly suspect about that broom of hers, but cheating
doesn't exactly seem like your style, James."
"No! It doesn't have anything to do with the match," James said, and
then faltered. "It's a lot to explain. And I'm not even allowed to talk about
some of it. McGonagall asked me not to."
"Tell us as much as you can, then," Petra said.
"All right. Zane, Ralph, help me out. Fill in any bits I miss. It's going
to sound pretty mad, but here goes." Between the three of them, they
explained the entire story of the Merlin conspiracy, from the first glimpse of
the shade of Madame Delacroix on the lake to the adventure at the Grotto
Keep to Ralph and James' mysterious confrontation with the creepy dryad
demanding the Merlin robe. They had to back up then, and explain how
they'd come to capture the robe from Professor Jackson. James was worried
that the story had become so fragmented that the Gremlins wouldn't be able
to follow it. Ted listened intently the entire time, simply eating and
watching whoever was speaking. The rest of the Gremlins asked clarifying
questions and responded with a mixture of skepticism, awe and excitement.
"You've been working this whole plot out all year and you're only now
telling us about it?" Damien asked, narrowing his eyes.
"Like I said, McGonagall warned us not to tell anybody about the
Grotto Keep," James said sincerely. "And we were worried that you
wouldn't believe the rest of it, anyway. We had a hard time believing a lot of
it ourselves. For a while, at least. So what do you think?"
"I'm confused," Sabrina said, frowning. "The whole thing seems pretty
patched together. It's one thing to shoot off Weasley fireworks during the
debate, but it's something else entirely to go and steal the broom of one of
the most prominent, and frankly, scary witches in the school. That's
thievery, that is."

"It's only thievery if what we're saying isn't true," Zane reasoned. "If
Tabitha's broom is the Merlin staff, then it isn't hers, really. I don't know
whose it is, but no matter what, she had to have stolen it somehow herself."
Damien didn't seem convinced. "Even if she did, we'd be the only ones
who knew that. If she hauls us all into the Headmistress' office claiming we
stole her broom, what would we say? It's all right because she stole the
broom herself from somebody, we don't know who, and besides, the broom
is really the magic staff of the most powerful wizard ever, so we were really
just doing the world a favor taking it out of Corsica's hands? That'll fly like
a dead owl."
"Well, why wouldn't it?" Ralph interjected. "If it's true, it's true."
"And that came from the mouth of a Slytherin," Noah said, grinning
crookedly.
"What's that supposed to mean?" Ralph said, firming his jaw.
James shook his head. "It's all right, Ralph. He's ragging you. The
point is, yes, even if it is true, we might not be able to prove it. I won't tell
you we might not get in trouble over this. I can only tell you that if it is true,
then being hauled to McGonagall's office and called a thief is the least of
our worries. I can't ask any of you to get involved if you don't want to. It's
risky. We could all get in loads of trouble. We could even fail despite our
best efforts."
"Now wait a minute," Noah said, "this is the Gremlins you're talking
about."
Petra sat up straight and looked around at the group. "The thing is, if
James, Zane, and Ralph are wrong, we'll know by tomorrow. If we did
'borrow' Corsica's broom, we could return it, somehow. Probably
anonymously. No harm, no penalty. Everybody will just think it was a
Quidditch prank, right? But if this story is true, and the broom really is the

Merlin staff, then nobody will be dragging anybody to the Headmistress'
office."
"Why not?" Sabrina asked, interested.
"Because Tabitha will have bigger fish to fry," Noah answered
thoughtfully. "If she's part of some big Merlin conspiracy and she fails to
come through with the staff, she'll be in some serious outs with her cronies.
People like that don't tend to be very forgiving, you know. Why, we might
never even see her again."
"One can only hope," Petra muttered.
Ted stirred. "Look here, all of you. This is all well and good, but as far
as I'm concerned, there's only one thing to decide. Can we trust James? I
don't know Zane and Ralph here all that well, but I grew up with James. He
may have sometimes been an obnoxious little squitter, but he's always been
honest. And besides, he's the son of my godfather. You remember that guy,
don't you? I'm willing to take a little risk for him. Not just because he's
family, but because he's a Potter. If he says there's a battle worth fighting,
I'm inclined to believe him."
"Well said, mate," Noah said gravely, slapping Ted on the back. "And
besides, let's not forget that this does have the fringe benefit of pulling one
over on Tabitha Corsica."
"And perhaps balancing out tonight's Quidditch match," Sabrina
admitted.
"And maybe we could somehow snatch her broom when she's nice and
high in the air!" Damien grinned nastily.
"That's what I said!" Zane exclaimed.
"You're both mad," Petra said reproachfully. "You're as bad as she is."

"We don't want to kill her," Zane replied in a wounded voice. "We just
want to see her drop a few hundred feet in terror. Ridcully would levitate
her at the last moment, just like the Ralphinator did for James. Honestly,
you must think we're monsters."
"So are we all agreed, then?" Ted asked the group. Everyone nodded
and murmured assent.
"That's wonderful and all," Ralph said, "but how are we going to do
it?"
Ted leaned back and stared up at the enchanted ceiling of the Great
Hall, stroking his chin. Slowly, he smiled. "Does anyone know what the
weather is supposed to be like tonight?"

There was very little that the group needed to do to prepare. After
lunch, Sabrina and Noah headed off to the basements to talk to the houseelves. James and Ted, both of whom had an afternoon free period, spent
some time in the library studying a collection of gigantic books about
Atmospheric and Weather Charms.
"This is Petra's thing, really," Ted lamented. "If she wasn't busy all
afternoon with Divination and Runes, we'd be a lot better off."
James looked over their notes. "Looks like we've got what we need,
though, doesn't it?"
"I guess," Ted replied airily, flipping a few huge pages. A minute later,
he looked up at James. "It was really tough for you to ask for help, wasn't
it?"
James glanced at Ted and met his eyes, then looked out a nearby

window. "A little, yeah. I didn't know if I'd be able to explain it. I wasn't
sure any of you would believe it."
Ted furrowed his brow. "Is that all?" he prodded.
"Well…," James began, then stopped. He fiddled with his quill. "No, I
guess not. It just seemed like… like something I was supposed to do on my
own. I mean, with Zane and Ralph's help, sure. They were along with the
whole thing from the start. But still. I kind of figured that, between the three
of us, we'd be able to manage. We'd work it out. It felt a little like…" He
stopped, realizing what he was about to say, surprised by it.
"Like what?" Ted asked.
James sighed. "Like a failure. Like if the three of us couldn't do it on
our own, we'd failed, somehow."
"The three of you. Like your dad and Ron and Hermione, you mean."
James glanced at Ted sharply. "What? No… no," he said, but suddenly he
wasn't sure.
"I'm just saying," Ted replied. "It makes sense. That's how your dad
did it. He was a big one for taking on all the responsibilities of the world
and not sharing the load with anyone else. He and Ron and Hermione.
There were always loads of people around who were ready and willing to
help, and sometimes, they did, but not until they'd pretty much forced
themselves into the action." Ted shrugged.
"You sound like Snape," James said, keeping his voice level. He felt
uncomfortably vulnerable all of a sudden.
"Well, maybe Snape's right, sometimes," Ted said mildly, "even if he
was an oily old humbug most of the time."
"Yeah, well, blast him," James said, surprised to feel a prickle of
tears. He blinked them away. "He was a load of help, wasn't he? Sneaking

around, working both sides, never making it clear to anybody where his
loyalties really lay until it was too late. Can't really blame my dad for not
trusting him, can you? So I don't trust him either. Maybe my dad did do
most stuff with just Aunt Hermione and Uncle Ron. That was all he needed,
wasn't it? They won. He'd found two people he could trust with everything.
Well, I found them, too. I've got Ralph and Zane. So maybe I thought I
could be as good as Dad. I'm not, though. I needed some help." There was
more James meant to say, but he stopped, uncertain if he should continue.
Ted looked at James for a long, thoughtful moment, and then leaned
forward, resting his elbows on the table. "Tough thing living in the shadow
of your dad, isn't it?" he said. James didn't reply. A moment later, Ted went
on. "I never knew my dad. He died right here, on the school grounds. He
and Mum both. They were in the Battle of Hogwarts, you know. You'd think
that it would be hard to feel resentful of people you never knew, but you
can. I resent them for dying. Sometimes, I resent them for being here at all.
I mean, what were they thinking? Both of them rushing off into some big
battle, leaving their kid at home. You call that responsible? I sure don't."
Ted looked out the window as James had done a minute earlier. Then he
sighed. "Ah well, most of the time, though, I'm proud of them. Somebody
once said, if you don't have something worth dying for, you aren't really
living. Mum and Dad had something worth dying for, and they did. I lost
them, but I got a legacy out of it. A legacy is worth something, isn't it?" He
looked across the table at James again, searching his face. James nodded,
unsure what to say. Finally Ted shrugged a little. "The reason I bring it up,
though, is my dad, he left me something else."
Ted was quiet for almost a minute, thinking, apparently debating with
himself. Finally, he spoke again. "Dad was a werewolf. I guess it's as simple
as that. You didn't know that, did you?"
James tried to keep his face from showing it, but he was quite shocked.
He knew there had been something secret about Remus Lupin, something
that had never been explained to him or even mentioned outright. All James
knew for sure was that Lupin had been close friends with Sirius Black,
James Potter the First, and a man named Peter Pettigrew that had eventually

betrayed them all. James knew that Lupin had come to teach at Hogwarts
when his dad was in school, and that Lupin had taught his dad how to
summon his Patronus. Whatever the secret of Remus Lupin's past, it
couldn't have been anything terribly serious, James had reasoned. He had
thought perhaps Ted's father had been in Azkaban for a while or that he had
once flirted with the Dark Arts when he was young. It had never crossed
James' mind that Remus Lupin might have been a werewolf.
Despite James' attempt to mask his shock, Ted saw it on his face and
nodded. "Yeah, quite a secret, that was. Your dad told me the whole story
himself a few years back, when I was old enough to understand it.
Grandmum never talks about it at all, even now. I think she's afraid. Not so
much of what was, but… well, what could be."
James was a little afraid to ask. "What could be, Ted?"
Ted shrugged. "You know how it is with werewolves. There're only
two ways to become one. You can get bitten by one or you can be born of
one. Of course, nobody really knows exactly what happens when only your
mum or dad is a werewolf. Your dad said that my dad was pretty upset
when he found out Mum was going to have a baby. He was scared, see? He
didn't want the kid to be like him, to grow up an outcast, cursed and hated.
He thought he never should've even married my mum, because she wanted
babies, but he was afraid to pass on the curse to them. Well, when I was
born, I guess everybody breathed a big sigh of relief. I was normal. I got my
mum's Metamorphmagus thing, even. They tell me I was always changing
my hair color as a baby. Got no end of laughs about that, Grandmum says. I
can still do it today, and a few other things, too. I usually don't, though.
Once you get known for stuff like that, it's hard to be known for much else,
if you know what I mean. So I guess Dad died feeling a bit better about
having me, then. He died knowing I was normal, more or less. I'm glad of
that." Ted was staring out the window again. He took a deep breath, and
then looked back at James. "Harry told me how your Grandfather James,
Sirius Black, and Pettigrew used to run with my dad when he changed, how
they'd change into animal forms and accompany him around the
countryside under the full moon, protecting him from the world and the
world from him. I even started thinking it was all sort of adventurous and

romantic, like those dopey Muggles who read those werewolf stories where
the werewolves are all handsome and seductive and mysterious. I started
almost wishing I had got the werewolf thing after all. And then…" Ted
stopped and seemed to wrestle with himself for a moment. He lowered his
voice and went on. "Well, the thing is, nobody really knows how all this
werewolf stuff works, do they? I never gave it a second thought. But then,
last year… last year, I started having insomnia. No big deal, right? Except it
wasn't any normal insomnia. I couldn't sleep, but not because I wasn't tired,
exactly. I was… I was…" He stopped again and leaned back in his chair,
staring hard at the wall by the window.
"Hey," James said, feeling nervous and embarrassed, although he didn't
quite know why, "you don't have to tell me. Forget it. No problem."
"No," Ted said, returning his gaze to James, "I do need to tell you. As
much for me as for you. Because I haven't told anybody else yet, not even
Grandmum. I think if I don't tell somebody, I'll go nutters. See, I couldn't
sleep because I was so hungry. I was starved! I lay there in bed the first time
it happened, telling myself that this was just crazy. I'd had a nice big dinner
and everything, just like normal. But no matter what I told myself, my
stomach just kept telling me it wanted food. And not just anything. It
wanted meat. Raw meat. Fresh-off-the-bone meat. You see what I'm getting
at?"
James understood. "It was…," he began, and then had to clear his throat. "It
was a full moon?"
Ted nodded grimly, slowly. "Eventually, I got to sleep. But since then,
it's gotten worse. By the end of last school year, I finally started sneaking
down to the kitchens below the Great Hall, where all the elves work. They
have a big meat locker down there. I started to… well, you know. I ate. It
tends to be a bit of a mess." Ted shuddered, and then seemed to shrug it off.
"Anyway, the point is, obviously I didn't completely skip the whole
werewolf thing. My dad gave me his own shadow to live in, didn't he? I
don't blame him for it. For all I know, this is the worst it'll ever get. And this
isn't all that bad. Helps me bulk up for Quidditch season, at least. But… it's
scary, a little. I don't know how to manage it yet. And I'm afraid to tell

anyone about it. People…" Ted swallowed and looked hard at James.
"People don't respond well to werewolves."
James didn't know whether to agree with that or not. Not because it
was untrue, but because he wasn't sure Ted needed any more affirmation of
it. "My dad could help you, I bet," James said. "And me, too. I'm not afraid
of you, Ted, even if you are a werewolf. I've known you my whole life.
Maybe we could, you know, work it out like your dad and his mates did. He
had his James Potter to help him, and you have yours."
Ted smiled, and it was a huge, genuine smile. "You're a brick, James.
I'd hate to have to eat you. Learn how to turn yourself into a giant dog, like
Sirius did, and maybe being a werewolf wouldn't be so bad after all, with
you trotting along next to me. But I almost forgot why I brought this up at
all." Ted leaned forward again, his eyes serious. "You have the shadow of
your dad to grow up in, just like me. But I can't choose whether I'm like my
dad or not. You can. It's not a curse, James. Your dad's a great man. Pick the
bits of who he is that are worth being like, and be like them, if you want.
The other parts, well, that's your choice, isn't it? Take it or leave it. Those
are the places where you can choose to be even better. Your dad didn't much
ask for help, did he? But that's not because he didn't need it. The fact that
you asked for help doesn't tell me you're worse than him. It tells me you
learned something he never learned. That's you being you, not just a copy of
your dad. I think that's pretty cool, if you ask me. And not just because it
means I get to help pull a fast one on Tabitha Corsica."
James was speechless. He simply stared at Ted, unsure what to feel or
think, unsure if what Ted was saying was true or not. He knew only that it
surprised him and humbled him, in a good way, to hear Ted say what he
had. Ted closed the gigantic book in front of him with a loud clunk.
"Come on," he said, standing and gathering the books together. "Help
me get these to the common room so Petra can look them over before the
match. She's going to have to help me get this right or we're doomed for
sure. Dinner is in an hour, and after that, we're going to be pretty
preoccupied for the rest of the night, if you know what I mean."

The afternoon of the last Quidditch match of the season was cool and
misty, covered with a veil of restless, grey clouds. Silent and unusually
somber, the Gremlins trooped through the tunnel behind the statue of St.
Lokimagus the Perpetually Productive. When they reached the steps that led
up to the interior of the equipment shed, Ted slowed and tiptoed. By now,
Ridcully had probably already retrieved the Quidditch trunk from the shed,
but it didn't hurt to be careful. Ted peered around the cramped space, saw
only some dusty shelves and a few broken brooms, and then beckoned the
rest to follow him up.
"It's all clear. We should be safe in here, now that Ridcully's been and
gone. He's the only one that uses the shed."
Ralph climbed the steps and looked cautiously around. James
remembered that Ralph hadn't been along the night he and the Gremlins had
used this secret tunnel to go raise the Wocket. "It's a magic tunnel. It only
works one way," he whispered to Ralph. "We can get back through it
because it's the way we came, but anybody else would just find the inside of
the equipment shed."
"Cool," Ralph breathed meaningfully. "That's good to know."
James, Ralph, and Sabrina pressed against the rear of the shed to peer
through the single, grimy window. The Quidditch pitch lay behind the shed,
and they could clearly see three of the grandstands, already mostly filled
with banner-waving students and teachers, all bundled against the
unseasonable chill. The Ravenclaw and Slytherin teams were gathering
along opposite sides of the pitch to observe their captains shaking hands
and listen to Ridcully's traditional recital of the basic rules of play.
"I forgot all about this," Sabrina said quietly. "The whole handshaking
thing. That Zane is a pretty sharp fellow."
James nodded. It had been Zane's idea to stage the broom caper during

the opening moments of the match, in those few minutes when both teams
came out of their holding pens beneath the grandstands to watch the
opening ritual. It was a genius idea, because it was the only time when the
teams' brooms were separated from their owners, left behind in the holding
pens until the teams collected them for their big flying introductions.
"It's time," Ted said, tapping James once on the shoulder. "There's
Corsica already."
James swallowed past a lump in his throat that felt like a marble. His
heart was already pounding. He pulled the Invisibility Cloak out of his
backpack, shook it open and threw it over his and Ralph's heads. As they
neared the door of the shed, Petra whispered harshly, "I can see your feet.
Ralph, duck down some more." Ralph hunkered and James saw the edge of
the cloak meet the ground around his feet.
"Stay low and move fast," Ted instructed. He turned and peered
between the planks of the door. The equipment shed was positioned at a
corner of the pitch, just inside the magical boundary erected by the match
official. The door faced away from the pitch, visible only to the Slytherin
grandstands right next to it.
"Looks clear enough," Ted said, his face pressed to the cracks in the
door. "Let's just hope
everybody's looking at the pitch and not this shed." With that, he pushed the
door open and stepped aside. James and Ralph shuffled through and James
heard the door clunk shut behind them.
The wind was shifty and unpredictable. It barreled across the pitch and
swatted restlessly at the Invisibility Cloak, flapping it about the boys' legs.
"Somebody's going to see my feet," Ralph moaned.
"We're almost there already," James said under the noise of the crowd.
"Just stay close and keep down."

Through the transparent fabric of the Invisibility Cloak, James could
see the dark mouth of the doorway into the Slytherin holding pen. The great
doors were swung wide open, latched to the walls of the grandstand to keep
them from blowing shut. The Slytherin players were lined up along the
pitch on the other side of the doorway, close enough that a careless word or
a flicker of their shoes might be noticed. James held his breath and resisted
the urge to run. Slowly, the two boys sidled past the nearest Slytherin
player, Tom Squallus, and slipped into the shadow of the doorway. Inside,
the wind fell away and the cloak hung still. James let his breath out in a
careful hiss.
"Come on," he whispered almost soundlessly. "We don't have much
time."
James knew what the Gremlins were planning, even though he wasn't
going to see any of it. Zane, who was watching along with his teammates
on the Ravenclaw side of the pitch, told him all about it later. As Tabitha
and Gennifer Tellus, the Ravenclaw Captain, walked to meet Ridcully at the
centerline of the pitch, a strange sound began to build in the air overhead.
All day, the sky had been low and sluggish, packed with grey clouds, but
now, as the spectators and players glanced up, the clouds had begun to
circle ponderously. There was a bulge in the clouds directly over the pitch,
spiraling in on itself and lowering even as the crowd watched. The general
noise of the assembly quieted, and the sound of the clouds in that silence
was a deep, vibrating groan, long and menacing. With only his eyes, Zane
glanced toward the equipment shed at the far corner of the pitch. He could
just see the shapes of Ted and Petra, ducked low in the corners of the tiny
window, their wands raised, teasing the cloud shapes. He smiled, and then,
when the timing was perfect and the entire pitch had fallen silent, he called
out across the pitch, "Quidditch is never called on account of weather, right,
Gennifer?"
There was a nervous ripple of laughter across the nearer grandstands.
Gennifer glanced at Zane for a moment, then looked back up at the funnel
lowering over her. As a Gremlin, Ted had told her of their plan, but Zane
could tell that her nervousness wasn't hard to fake. Neither Ridcully nor

Tabitha Corsica seemed prepared to move. Corsica merely looked up at the
clouds, her hair whipping wildly around her face, her wand visible in her
hand. Ridcully's expression seemed to be one of grim determination.
"Ladies and gentlemen," Damien's voice echoed throughout the
grandstands from his place in the announcer's booth, "we seem to be
experiencing some sort of highly localized weather phenomenon. Please
stay in your seats. You are probably safe there. Those on the field, please
remain where you are. Cyclones cannot see you if you don't move."
In the crowd, someone shouted out, "That's dinosaurs, you crazy
fruitbat!"
"Same concept," Damien answered in his amplified voice.
Sabrina and Noah darted out of the equipment shed, ducking against
the swirling winds. They scurried toward the tiny concessions area built
into the base of the Hufflepuff grandstand. The counter was manned by
Hufflepuff students, but the food itself was prepared by elves in a kitchen
near the back. Noah and Sabrina headed along the side of the grandstand
and stopped at an open doorway.
"Hey, you fellows see what's going on out here?" Sabrina yelled over
the growing noise of the cyclone. "Weather's getting pretty foul, isn't it?"
A grumpy looking elf in the back of the kitchen lowered his pipe. "And
what do you want we's to do about it, eh? You wants we should shoot a
blast of storm-calming pixie dust out our ears, maybe?"
"I was just thinking about section fifty-five, paragraph nine of the
Elves of Hogwarts Coalition Agreement," Noah yelled, hunkering in the
doorway. "Says elves are responsible for securing the grounds during
inclement weather. Getting pretty inclement out here, I'd say. Maybe you'd
like Sabrina and me to go shut and lock the holding pen doors for you until
this blows over? Come on, Sabrina."
The elf stuffed his pipe into the knot of his napkin loincloth and

jumped forward. "Never you mind that, now!" He turned and called into the
depths of the kitchen. "Oi! Peckle! Krung! Seedie! We got a job, we does.
Let's get a move on."
The four elves bustled past Sabrina and Noah. The grumpy elf called
back over his shoulder as they went, "Much obliged, master and mistress.
Enjoy the match, now."
As the elves scurried through the wind toward the holding pen doors,
the cyclone finally touched the pitch. It licked across the center line, twenty
feet to Tabitha Corsica's right, and for several moments, she watched it,
fascinated. Many people commented later that, impressive as it was, it was
certainly the smallest cyclone they had ever seen. The grass where it
touched down tossed wildly, but the power of the tornado dropped off
significantly after a hundred feet or so, so that those in the grandstands were
relatively unaffected. Gennifer Tellus turned and ran to the sidelines to join
her team. Ridcully didn't seem to notice. Still standing in the center of the
pitch next to him, Tabitha Corsica fingered her wand and glanced around,
now ignoring the writhing cyclone. She seemed to be looking for
something.
In the holding pen deep beneath the Slytherin grandstands, James and
Ralph heard the noise of the cyclone and the creaking of the grandstand as
the wind pressed against it.
"Which one is it?" Ralph asked as James whipped the cloak off them.
"There're so many of them!"
James pointed past the row of broomsticks leaning against the lockers.
There, in the corner farthest from the door, a broom hung in the air as if
awaiting its rider.
"That's got to be it," he said, darting toward it. They stopped, one on
either side of it. Close up, the broom seemed to be vibrating or humming
very slightly. A low, unsettling noise came from it, audible even over the
moan of the wind and the creak of the grandstands. "Grab it, then, James.
Come on, let's get out of here."

James reached out and grabbed the broomstick, but the broom didn't
budge. He pulled it, then wrapped both hands around it and yanked. The
broom was as immobile as if it had been buried in stone.
"What's the problem?" Ralph moaned, glancing back toward the door.
"If we're still in here when they come back…"
"We have the Invisibility Cloak, Ralph. We can hide," James said, but
he knew Ralph was right. The holding pen was small and there were no
obvious places to get out of the way, even if they couldn't be seen. "The
broom's stuck, somehow. I can't move it."
"Well," Ralph replied, gesturing vaguely, "it's a broomstick. Maybe
you're supposed to ride it."
James felt a sinking in his stomach. "I can't ride this thing, even if I
could get it to move."
"Why not?"
"It's not mine! I wasn't all that great on the broom until I got my
Thunderstreak, if you recall. We want to capture this thing, not pulverize it
into a wall with me on it."
"You've gotten better at it since then!" Ralph insisted. "Even before
you got your Thunderstreak, you were getting loads better. Almost as good
as Zane. Go on! I'll… I'll hop on the back and throw the cloak over both of
us!"
James dropped his hands and rolled his eyes. "Ralph, that's completely
crazy."
Suddenly, a resounding boom echoed down the corridor leading to the
pitch. It rattled the rafters, showering dust all around. Ralph and James both
startled. Ralph's voice was squeaky with fear. "What was that?"

"I don't know," James replied quickly, "but I think we just ran all out of
options. Ralph, get ready to hop on."
James swung his leg over the floating, gently humming broomstick
and gripped the handle tightly with both hands. Slowly, he settled his
weight onto the broomstick, letting it collect him.
A minute earlier, outside, Tabitha Corsica had spied something. Zane
saw her gaze stop on the equipment shed. Somehow, she'd known the
cyclone was suspicious and had identified the one place someone might
hide and cast spells into the magical boundaries of the Quidditch pitch.
Zane was prepared to bolt onto the pitch to head her off if she approached
the shed. He was already concocting a haphazard plan to pretend to drag her
to safety. She didn't approach the shed, though. Zane saw her take one step
in that direction, and then glance aside at the elves closing and barring the
doorways into the team holding pens. Tabitha turned on her heel and stalked
purposely toward the door in the base of the Slytherin grandstands. Even if
Zane ran full out, he'd barely beat her there. He simply had to hope that the
elves would stick by their duties, regardless of what Tabitha said.
Noah and Sabrina had followed the elves to the Slytherin holding pen
doors, watching from a distance as they swung them shut and threw the
locking beam into place. Sabrina saw Tabitha striding across the pitch, her
face grim and her wand out.
"Open those doors," Tabitha yelled, her voice firm but calm. She raised
her wand hand, pointing it at the closed doorway.
"Very sorry, Miss," the grumpy elf answered, bowing slightly.
"Coalition requirements. These doors must remain secure until such time as
they can be opened without fear of danger or damage."
"Open them now or stand aside," Tabitha called. She was only thirty
feet away from the doorway now, and Sabrina saw the look of murder on
Tabitha's face. She'd blast those doors open with her wand and probably
crush the poor duty-bound elves to paste between them and the wall.

Obviously, Tabitha had guessed what was happening and knew that her
broom was in jeopardy.
"Hey, Corsica!" Sabrina shouted, launching herself forward, trying to
get between Tabitha and the doors. "You summon this cyclone because you
were too proud to forfeit to the Ravenclaws?"
Tabitha's eyes darted toward Sabrina, but her pace didn't change. Her
wand hand swung swiftly and locked onto Sabrina, who stopped in her
tracks. Noah jumped forward to pull Sabrina back, but he was too late.
Neither heard the curse Tabitha spoke, but they both saw the bolt of red
light leap from her wand. It struck Sabrina square in the face, throwing her
backwards into Noah. Both fell to the ground, their shouts drowned by the
roar of the wind and the now yelling, confused crowd.
"Ladies and gentlemen," Damien's voice echoed over the noise,
"please let's give a big cheer for Mr. Cabe Ridcully, our beloved Quidditch
official, who is currently trying to calm the cyclone with some sort of…
well, ritualistic dance, as far as I can tell." Sure enough, Ridcully seemed to
be dancing around the tornado as it curled over the pitch, throwing up a
thick cloud of grit and dust. He pointed his wand at the funnel, but
whenever he seemed to get a good aim at it, the funnel would shift, lunging
towards him and forcing him to dance away. The crowd did indeed begin to
cheer him, so that very few people noticed what was happening at the base
of the Slytherin grandstands.
"Last chance," Tabitha called to the elves guarding the doorway. They
both glanced at Sabrina, who was still collapsed atop Noah, her hands
covering her face.
"Now listen here, mistress," the grumpy elf began, but he was cut off
by the bolt of red light that struck the closed doors. Both elves were thrown
aside as the great wooden beam that barred the door exploded with a
deafening boom and a shower of splinters. Tabitha hadn't slowed in her
approach to the door. She aimed her wand once more, ready to cast the spell
that would throw the doors wide open. Then, suddenly, she stopped. She
cocked her head, as if listening. Noah, struggling to get out from beneath

the dazed Sabrina, heard it as well. Beneath the sound of the cyclone and
the roaring grandstands, there was a sound like a single person yelling, and
it was growing louder very quickly.
The doors to the Slytherin holding pen burst open, ripping completely
off their hinges as something rocketed through them from inside. Noah had
the briefest glimpse of somebody bent low over a broom hurtling past
Tabitha Corsica so fast that she was thrown off her feet. She landed in a
graceless heap ten feet away. The voice of the screaming rider thinned into
distance as the broomstick streaked over the pitch, through the cyclone, and
out the other side.
James clung to Tabitha's broomstick as tightly as he could. He'd left
Ralph behind, having launched into an instant wild acceleration the moment
he'd settled onto the broom. He felt the thundering shock as the broom
rocketed through the cyclone, then he opened his eyes and pulled, trying to
gain some control over the wildly careening broomstick. The Quidditch
pitch wheeled sickeningly beneath him as the broom responded, fighting
him, but unable to resist the force of his lean. The Ravenclaw grandstand
loomed ahead and James struggled to pull up. He roared over the crowd,
which ducked in his wake, hats and banners flying up behind him. Damien
was yelling something from the announcer's booth, but James couldn't hear
it over the roar of the wind in his ears. He risked a glance behind him,
fearing he might have hurt someone. There were no obvious injuries as far
as he could see. When he turned forward, he was heading directly toward
the Slytherin grandstands again, back the way he'd come. He leaned the
opposite direction and pulled as hard as he could, driving the broom into a
wild, banking turn. The Slytherin grandstands spun away. With a sense of
wild triumph, James realized he was getting some control over the
broomstick. He looked ahead to see where his turn was taking him and
gasped. He barely had time to duck his head before socking through the
open door of the equipment shed.
The broom seemed to move as if it had a mind of its own. It roared
through the tunnel beyond the shed and the air of the confined space
pressed hard against James' eardrums. When it reached the opening behind

the pedestal of St. Lokimagus, it turned so hard, threading into the corridor,
that it nearly threw James off.
The sense of speed was staggering as the broomstick careened through
the halls. Fortunately, the majority of the school's population was out at the
Quidditch pitch for the tournament match, leaving the corridors mostly
empty. The broomstick banked and dipped into the chasm of the stairwells.
It swooped under and over the staircases as they swung and pivoted, barely
missing them, forcing James to duck and hug the broomstick as closely as
he could. Peeves was near the bottom of the staircases, apparently drawing
mustaches on some of the statuary. James saw him out of the corner of his
eye, then, amazingly, Peeves was sitting on the broomstick in front of
James, facing him.
"Naughty trickery this is, Potter boy!" Peeves shouted gleefully as the
broom shot into a narrow hall of classrooms. "Is we trying to create some
friendly competition with dear ol' Peeves? Hee hee!"
Peeves grabbed a passing chandelier and swung around it, leaving
James and the broom to plunge on after him. James tried to steer, but it was
no use. The broomstick was following its own definite, if maniacal, course.
It banked and dove down a flight of stone stairs into the elf kitchens. Unlike
the rest of the school, the kitchens were crowded and bustling, filled with
elves cleaning up after the evening meal. The broom darted between
gigantic pots, forcing the elves to scramble like tenpins. There was a
cacophony of crashing dishes and silverware, the noise of which fell away
with horrible speed. The washrooms were next, stifling hot and noisy. The
broom rocketed wildly through the machinery of the washers, diving
through gigantic cogwheels and under the arms of enormous, chugging
pistons. James was horrified to see that the broom, apparently having
reached a dead end, was barreling straight toward the stone wall at the end
of the room. He was about to throw himself off the broom, hoping to land in
one of the copper vats of suds and water, when the broom ticked slightly to
the left and angled up. There was a door set into the well, and James
recognized that it was a laundry chute. He gritted his teeth and hugged the
broomstick again. The broom shot into the chute, angling upwards so hard

that James could barely keep his legs tucked in, and then there was only
rushing darkness and pressure.
A pile of laundry met him halfway up the chute and James spluttered
as the mass of cloth smothered him. He struggled to shake the clothes free,
but couldn't risk letting go of the broomstick. The broom ducked again, and
James could tell by the change in pressure and the coolness of the air that it
had somehow taken him back outside again. All he could see through the
mass of cloth was a faint pattern of flickering light as the broomstick
banked and dove. James risked letting go with one hand. He flailed at the
clothing wrapped around him, finally grabbing a handful and yanking it as
hard as he could. The cloth came free, stunning him with a blurring tableau
of light and wind. He had time only to recognize that somehow, incredibly,
the broom was taking him back to the Quidditch pitch. The grandstands
loomed ahead of him. At the base of the nearest one was a throng of people,
many turning toward him, pointing and yelling. Then, with instant finality,
the broomstick simply stopped moving. James shot off the end of the
broom, and for what seemed like far too long a time, he simply hurtled
through the air unsupported. Finally, the ground claimed him with a long,
rolling thud. Something in James' left arm popped unpleasantly and when
he finally came to a stop, he found himself staring up into a dozen random
faces.
"Looks like he'll be all right," one of them said, looking from him to
someone standing nearby.
"More than he deserves," another person said angrily, frowning down
at him. "Trying to ruin the match by stealing the team captain's broomstick.
I never would have thought it."
"It's quite all right, really," another voice said from further off. James
moaned and pushed himself up on his left elbow. His right arm was
throbbing horribly. Tabitha Corsica stood twenty feet away, surrounded by a
crowd of awed spectators. Her broom hung motionless next to her, exactly
where it had stopped. She had one hand on it, gripping it easily. "We can
surely forgive this kind of first-year enthusiasm, although I myself am
rather amazed at the lengths some will go to in the name of Quidditch.

Really, James. It's just a game." She smiled at him, showing him all her
teeth.
James flopped back into the grass, clutching his right arm next to him.
The crowd began to break apart as Ridcully appeared, pushing his way
through. The Headmistress and Professors Franklyn and Jackson were right
behind him. James heard Tabitha Corsica talking loudly to her teammates as
she headed back toward the pitch. "People think that because it's Mugglemade, it must be a lesser broom, you see. But the magic of this is stronger
than anything you'd find in a standard Thunderstreak, even one with the
ExtraGestural Enhancement option. This broom knows who its mistress is.
All I had to do was summon it. Mr. Potter could hardly have known that,
though. In a way, I feel sorry for him. He was just doing what he knew to
do."
McGonagall squatted down next to James, her face grave and full of
consternation. "Really, Potter. I just don't know quite what to say."
"Broken ulna, Madam," Franklyn said, peering at James' arm through a
strange device comprised of different sized lenses and brass rings. He
folded it neatly and slipped it into his inner robe pocket. "I'd suggest the
hospital wing for now and questions later. We have much more to attend to
at the moment."
"Quite right," the Headmistress agreed, not taking her gaze from
James. "Especially since I expect that Miss Sacarhina and Mr. Recreant will
be here within the next few hours. I must say, Potter, I am extremely
surprised at you. To attempt something so puerile at such a time." She
stood, brushing herself off. "Very well, then. Mr. Jackson, would you escort
Mr. Potter to the hospital wing, please? And if you would be so kind as to
instruct Madam Curio that Mr. Potter is to be kept there overnight," she
fixed James with a steely stare as Jackson pulled him to his feet, "I want to
know exactly where to find him when I wish to question him. And no
visitors."
"Rest assured, Madam Headmistress," Jackson answered, leading
James back toward the castle.

They walked the first five minutes in silence, then, when they entered
the courtyard and the noise of the pitch died away, Jackson said, "I haven't
quite pegged you yet, Potter."
The pain in James' arm had receded to a dull throb, though it was still
rather distracting. "Excuse me, sir?"
"I mean that I haven't figured you out, yet," Jackson said in a
conversational voice. "You obviously know far more than a boy your age
should, and somehow, I don't think that is merely because you are the son of
the Ministry's Head Auror. First, you attempt to steal my case, and then
tonight, you orchestrate this preposterous charade to steal Miss Corsica's
broom. And despite what everyone else might think, Potter," he glanced
aside at James as they entered the main hall, his dark brows lowering, "I
know that you did not steal it in order to give the Ravenclaws a better
chance in the tournament."
James cleared his throat. "I don't know what you're talking about."
Jackson wasn't paying him any attention. "It doesn't matter, Potter.
Whatever you think you know, whatever it is you are up to, after tonight, it
won't matter one iota."
James' heart skipped a beat, and then began to pound hard in his
chest. "Why?" he asked, his lips strangely numb. "What's tonight?"
Jackson ignored him. He opened one of the leaded glass doors into the
hospital wing and held it for James. The room was long and high, lined with
crisply made beds. Madam Curio, who for rather obvious reasons, was not a
Quidditch fan, was seated at her desk in the rear corner listening to classical
music on her wireless.
"Madam Curio, you probably know Mr. Potter, here," Jackson said,
pressing James toward her. "He has somehow managed to break his arm at
the Quidditch match despite the fact that he himself is not actually on either
of the teams."

Madam Curio stood and approached James, shaking her head.
"Hooligans. I'll never understand what it is about that sport that turns
otherwise proper individuals into Neanderthals. What do we have here,
then?" She lifted James' arm gingerly, feeling for the break. He hissed
through his teeth when she found it. She clucked her tongue. "Nasty
fracture, sure enough. Could have been worse, though, I'm sure. We'll have
you fixed up in no time."
"Also," Jackson said, "I've been instructed by the Headmistress to ask
you to keep Mr. Potter here for the evening, Madam."
Curio didn't look up from her inspection of James' arm. "The SkeleGro will take at least until tomorrow morning to complete its work, anyway.
Still, this is minor enough. I might have sent him to his rooms with a
splint."
"The Headmistress wishes to question Mr. Potter, Madam. She desires
that he be kept under supervision until then. It seems, I am afraid, that Mr.
Potter is suspected to be involved in a very serious plot that could put this
school at risk. I shouldn't say more, but if you chose to post some sentries at
the doors to keep visitors out and Mr. Potter in, at least until tomorrow
morning, I wouldn't think that was overdoing it."
"She didn't say any such thing!" James exclaimed, but he knew that his
protest wouldn't help. In fact, the louder he protested, the worse it would
probably look.
Curio gasped and straightened up. "Does this have anything to do with
the intrusion of that horrible man on the premises yesterday? I've heard that
he's some sort of Muggle newsperson, and that he's still here! It does,
doesn't it?" She covered her mouth with her hand and looked from Jackson
to James.
"Again, I really shouldn't say any more, Madam," Jackson replied.
"Besides, Mr. Potter may end up being entirely exonerated. We shall see in
time. At any rate." Jackson looked down at James and there was the faintest

suggestion of a smile on one corner of his lips. "Until tomorrow morning,
then, James."
He turned and stalked out of the room, closing the door carefully
behind him.

17. Night of the Returning
To her credit, Madam Curio didn't let Professor Jackson's accusations
influence her treatment of James. She examined the fracture for several
minutes, poking and pinching, and then carefully splinted it. She fell into a
harsh but pedantic diatribe about the woes of Quidditch injuries, but it
sounded to James like something she'd said a hundred times before. Her
mind was elsewhere, and James didn't need to guess what was
preoccupying her. The invasion of Martin Prescott into the school had
caused a wave of speculation and anxiety. His identity as a Muggle news
reporter, and the fact that he was being kept in the Alma Aleron's quarters
had fed a load of rumors. There was a cloud of unease over the entire
school, not alleviated by the Headmistress' announcement that Ministry
officials were arriving to deal with Mr. Prescott. As Madam Curio measured
the Skele-Gro dosage, James caught her glancing at him suspiciously,
looking him up and down. Somebody had to have let the interloper in, after
all. Why not this first-year son of the Head Auror? James knew that some

people--those who believed the lies of the Progressive Element--would
expect him to pull just such a stunt. Earlier that day, he'd heard a voice from
a cluster of students saying, "It makes sense, doesn't it? The whole Auror
line is that the Law of Secrecy is our only protection from the supposed
Muggle witch-hunters. So what do they do? They allow this guy to sneak in
and scare us all into thinking Muggles are hiding out in the forest, behind
every bush with a torch and a pyre, ready to burn us all at the stake. It's
preposterous. I say let him do his story. That'll show those Ministry powermongers what for."
"There," Madam Curio said, straightening. "All finished. You'll feel
some tingling and itching overnight as the bone knits. That's perfectly
normal. Don't fiddle with the splint. The last thing you'll want is for the
bones to knit crookedly. The only fix for that would be for me to re-break
the bone and start all over, and we certainly wouldn't want that. Now," she
gestured towards the row of beds, "pick whichever you like. I'll see that
breakfast is brought to you here in the morning. You may as well make
yourself comfortable."
James slung his backpack onto one of the bedside tables and climbed
up onto the unusually high bed. It was a very comfortable bed, and for good
reason, since all the mattresses in the hospital wing had been infused with
Relaxation Charms. The charms, however, had no effect on James'
thoughts, which were dark with frustration and anxiety. Professor Jackson
had admitted that tonight was a night of ultimate importance. It wasn't
simply speculation anymore. And now here James was, stuck for the night
in the hospital wing, neatly trapped by Professor Jackson's crafty
interpretation of Headmistress McGonagall's instructions. Alone for the first
time since the attempted broomstick caper, James felt the full impact of
what had happened out on the Quidditch pitch. It had seemed like a crazy
plan from the beginning, but no more so than the plan to capture Professor
Jackson's briefcase, and that had worked, hadn't it? Everything had been a
success so far, until now. It was as if an invisible brick wall had suddenly
blocked them, halting their progress at the last, ultimate moment. Arguably,
the Merlin staff was the most powerful element of the three relics. Even
now, Corsica, Jackson, and Delacroix were probably preparing to bring the

relics together, unaware that they were missing the robe, but with the two
most important relics in their possession.
In spite of his anxieties, James had begun to drift sleepily under the
influence of the charmed mattress. Now he sat up, his heart beating hard in
his chest. What would happen when Jackson opened his case and found
Ralph's dress robes instead of the relic robe of Merlin? The Visum-ineptio
charm would break, then, wouldn't it? Jackson would see the case for what
it was. He'd recognize it, and remember that day in Technomancy class,
when James, Ralph, and Zane had used the fake case to trick him. He had
thought they'd failed, had even referred to it while taking James to the
hospital wing. He would surely realize then that they hadn't failed. Jackson
was smart. He'd know which of the boys had the real robe. Not Zane or
Ralph, but James. The boy he hadn't 'pegged' yet. Would Jackson come to
the hospital wing to demand the robe? No, even as James thought it, he
knew Jackson wouldn't. He'd go straight to James' trunk in the Gryffindor
boys' quarters. He'd probably claim to be searching for clues about James'
involvement in the unnamed dangerous plot against Hogwarts. Jackson
would surely get James' trunk open, and then he'd retrieve the robe.
Everything James, Ralph, and Zane, and even the Gremlins had risked
would be in vain. It would indeed be over, and there was nothing James
could do about it.
James struck the bedside table with his fist in frustration. Madam
Curio, seated at her desk in the corner, gasped and put a hand over her
chest. She looked at James, but didn't say anything. James pretended not to
see her.
His backpack had slipped sideways when he'd slammed his fist onto
the table. Resolutely, he grabbed it and opened it. He took out his
parchments and his ink and quill. He knew that, under normal conditions,
Madam Curio would never allow a patient to have an open ink bottle on her
clean white sheets, but as far as she was concerned, she was harboring a
potentially dangerous individual. Best not to provoke him. James bent over
the parchment and wrote quickly, awkwardly, with his splinted arm, not
even noticing the way his hand smeared the inky wet letters.

Dear Dad,
I'm sorry I took the M. Map and the I. Cloak. I know I shouldn't
have, but I needed them, and I thought it was what you would
have done, so I hope you aren't too mad. I know I don't stand a
chance with Mum, but put in a good word, will you?
The reason I took them is because I've discovered something
really sneaky and scary going on here at school. Some of the
American teachers are in on it, though not Franklyn. He's cool.
Also, the P.E. here is in on it. I don't want to tell you about it in a
letter, but even if I am in big trouble with you and Mum, I need
you to come. Can you be here tomorrow? Miss Sacarhina says
you are on an important job and not to be interrupted, so maybe
you can't, but try, OK? It's really important and I need your help.
Love,
James
James folded the parchment and tied it with a bit of twine. He didn't
know how he'd send it, but he felt better just having written it. He
remembered now that he'd intended to write his dad about the Merlin plot
way back when they'd captured the robe, and he berated himself for not
doing it then. He'd thought, at the time, that his reasons for not telling his
dad were good ones, but now, trapped in the hospital wing on the ultimate
night of the Merlin plot, and knowing that, despite everything, Jackson
might very possibly capture the relic robe back from him, it seemed foolish
and arrogant that he hadn't written his dad about it earlier.
An idea struck James and he dug in his backpack again. A moment
later, he held his Weasley brand rubber duck in his hands. It still had Zane's
handwriting on the bottom: Laundry Room! James dipped his quill and
drew a line through that, then, underneath it, he wrote: hospital wing: send
Nobby to the east window. When he was finished, he gave the duck a sharp
squeeze. "Manky barmpot!" it quacked.

In the corner, Madam Curio once again startled and looked accusingly
at James. Potential criminal or not, she clearly thought his behavior
unaccountably rude.
"Sorry, Madam," James said, holding up the rubber duck. "It wasn't
me. It was my duck."
"I see," she said with obvious disapproval. "Perhaps now would be a
good time for me to retire for the evening. You won't be, er, needing
anything, will you?"
James shook his head. "No, Madam. Thanks. My arm feels loads
better, anyway."
"Don't fiddle with it, like I said, and you'll be fine by morning, I
expect." She stood and hurried past James toward the leaded-glass doors.
Two figures could be seen through the milky glass, and James knew that
they were Philia Goyle and Kevin Murdock, both kindly sent by Professor
Jackson to watch the doors. Madam Curio unlocked the doors and went out,
offering her good-evenings to the sentries. The door clicked shut behind her
and James heard the bolt clack into place. He sighed in frustration, and then
jumped as his rubber duck quacked a loud insult next to him. He raised it
and looked at the bottom. Below his handwriting was a new line of black
letters: open the window: ten minutes.
James felt a little better. He hadn't been sure that either Ralph or Zane
would be in any position to hear or respond to their ducks. In fact, he'd had
no word whatsoever about what had happened to the rest of the Gremlins.
He felt cautiously confident that none had been caught, although Ralph's
predicament, left in the middle of the Slytherin holding pens, was probably
worse than anyone else's. Despite that, he figured that even Ralph had
gotten out all right. Once everyone had seen James explode out of the
holding pen riding Tabitha's broom, attention had probably focused on his
wild ride, and then Tabitha's summoning of her broomstick, bringing both it
and James back to the pitch. Most likely, Ralph had slipped out at that point
and returned to the shed, along with the Gremlins.

James watched the clock over Madam Curio's desk as the minutes
ticked away. He struggled with the impulse to go and open the window
before the ten minutes had passed. If Madam Curio came back and saw him
standing by an open window, she'd suspect treachery even though the
window was at least thirty feet above the ground. Finally, as the minute
hand ticked into place, announcing eight fifteen, James jumped off the bed.
He grabbed the letter from the bedside table and ran lightly toward the far
right window. The latch turned easily and James opened the window onto
cool, misty night. The sky had finally cleared, revealing a dusting of silvery
stars, but there was no sign of Nobby. James leaned over the sill, looking
along the ledge, and a monstrous silent shape loomed out of the darkness
toward him, blotting out the stars. It fell over him heavily, surrounded him,
and yanked him bodily out the window before he had time to shout for help.
The figure squeezed him so that James' breath whooshed out of him.
Far below, a voice called in a loud stage whisper, "Not so hard! You'll grind
his bones, already!" James was amazed to recognize Zane's voice. The
gigantic hand loosened a bit and James saw yards of female giant going past
as he was lowered toward the ground.
"Nicely done, Prechka!" Zane called, patting the giant on her shin. She
grunted happily and opened her hand, unrolling James onto the ground
between her massive feet.
"I thought you were just bringing Nobby!" James gasped, clambering
up.
"It was Ted's idea," Ralph said, moving out of the shadow of a nearby
shrubbery. "He knew you'd want to get out and see to this whole Merlin
affair, especially now. He went off to find Grawp the moment you were
taken off by Jackson. Grawp found Prechka, who's tall enough to reach the
hospital wing, and we were just trying to figure out how to get you to the
window when you ducked at us. Worked out pretty neatly, we thought."
"I'll say," James said, rubbing his ribs with the heel of his left palm.

"Good thing she's left-handed or I'd probably need a whole new dose of
Skele-Gro for my arm. She's got a grip! So where is Ted, anyway?"
"House arrest, along with the rest of the Gremlins," Zane said,
shrugging. "McGonagall knew they were involved in the broomstick
thieving plot, even if she can't prove it yet. She probably would have let it
slide--she has bigger frogs to dissect with Recreant and Sacarhina here--but
Jackson's idea was to have all the Gremlins out of the way until tomorrow,
when the whole thing with this Prescott dude was taken care of. Ted was
sent off to the Gryffindor common room the moment he got back from the
forest with Grawp. Everybody's there except Sabrina, who took a pretty
ugly Gigantism Curse from Corsica. Her nose is the size of a soccerball.
Nothing for it but to sleep it off, apparently. I think we'd have been under
guard, too, except that Jackson thinks Ralph's too dim to be involved in the
broomstick plot and I had the perfect alibi, being right there on the field the
whole time. So here we are. What's the plan, James?"
James glanced from Zane to Ralph to Prechka, and then took a deep
breath. "Same as before. We need to get out to the Grotto Keep to stop
Jackson, Delacroix, and whoever else is involved. We still need to capture
the Merlin staff, if we can, and most importantly, we need to escape so we
can testify about whoever is involved."
"Hear, hear," Ralph agreed.
"But first," James said, holding up the letter he'd written to his dad, "I
need to send this. I should've sent it weeks ago, but better late than never.
Ted was right. We need help. If we hadn't asked the Gremlins to help us, I'd
still be stuck up there in the hospital wing."
"If we hadn't asked the Gremlins to help us, you might not have gotten
thrown in there in the first place," Ralph muttered, but without much
feeling.
"Zane," James said, turning toward him and stuffing the letter into his
pocket, "what time is the alignment supposed to happen?"

"Nine fifty-five," Zane answered. "We've only got an hour and a half."
James nodded. "Meet me at the edge of the forest near the lake in
fifteen minutes. Bring Prechka if she'll come."
Zane looked up the dark bulk of the giantess. "I don't think we could
get rid of her if we wanted to. She seems to like helping."
"Excellent. Ralph, you have your wand?"
Ralph produced his ridiculously large wand from his back pocket. The
lime-green painted tip glowed eerily in the darkness. "Don't leave home
without it," he said.
"All right, keep it handy. You're on guard duty. Try to remember
everything we learned in D.A.D.A. and be ready to put it to use. This is it,
then. Let's go."
James darted through the shadows of the corridors, trying to move
both quickly and inconspicuously, which was rather a challenge. He arrived
at the portrait hole just as Steven Metzker was coming out.
"James!" Steven said, blinking in surprise. "What are you doing here?
Aren't you supposed to be…" He stopped, and then glanced around the
darkened corridors. "Get inside before anyone sees you."
"Thanks, Steven," James said, ducking into the portrait hole.
"Don't mention it," Steven replied. "And I really mean that. I never
saw you, and you never saw me. Don't make me regret this."
"Regret what? Nothing happened."
Steven stepped into the hall as the portrait of the Fat Lady swung shut
on James.

The Gremlins, except for Sabrina, were gathered by the fireplace,
looking sulky and agitated. Noah saw James and sat up. "I see Prechka
found her man." The others turned and grinned wickedly.
"What are you doing here?" Ted said, growing serious. "Ralph and
Zane just left to get you. It took us half the night to get your stuff sorted out
after that disaster at the Quidditch pitch, so it's getting pretty late. You
should be heading out to the island. You want us to come along?"
"No, you're all in enough trouble. I just came to mail this." He held up
the letter. Ted nodded in approval, sensing who it was for. "I'm meeting
Ralph and Zane by the forest in ten minutes."
"I want to come," Noah said, standing up. "Corsica cursed Sabrina. I
want to return the favor on her behalf."
James shook his head. "You three have a different job tonight, and it
may well involve a curse or two. If Ralph, Zane, and I fail, Jackson or
somebody will probably show up here looking for the Merlin robe. You
three need to guard it. If anyone comes looking for it, you have to stop
them, no matter what. I hate to ask you to do that, but… will you?"
Petra nodded and looked at Noah and Ted. "Not a problem. But as
much as we'd all like a chance to plug one of those guys, do try not to fail,
won't you?"
James nodded, and then turned and ran up the stairs to the boys'
sleeping quarters. The room was empty and dark but for one candle near the
door to the tiny bathroom. Nobby, who hadn't gotten the principle of the
Owlery and continued to show up at James' window, was sleeping in his
cage.
"Nobby," James whispered urgently, "got a message for you to deliver
to Dad. I know it's late, but it's really important." The great bird raised his
head from beneath his wing and clicked his beak sleepily. James opened the

cage door, letting Nobby hop out onto the ledge of the table. When the note
was tied to Nobby's outstretched leg, James opened the window.
"And this time, when you come back, go to the Owlery. Nice as it is to
have you around, you're going to get me in even more trouble. All right?"
The owl peered at James with his enormous, inscrutable eyes, then
hopped onto the window ledge. With a gust of flapping wings, Nobby
launched out into the darkness.
James was about to plunge back down the stairs again when his eye
was caught by the dark bulk of his trunk. Was it slightly out of its normal
position? He felt a sudden, icy dread. Maybe Jackson had already been for
the robe. Perhaps he'd checked his briefcase before heading out to the
Grotto Keep, just to be sure, and discovered the trickery. Surely the
Gremlins below would have seen Jackson coming and going, but then
again, maybe not. As James had realized earlier, Jackson was smart. Maybe
he'd disguised himself or maybe he'd asked Madame Delacroix to use her
Remote Physio-Apparition skills to simply appear in the boys' sleeping
quarters to collect the robe directly. Then again, Ted had mentioned that
Zane and Ralph had been there, sorting things out after the Quidditch
disaster. James had to know. He hunkered down next to his trunk and
produced his wand. The case unlocked at his command, and he riffled
through the contents until he found the case buried at the bottom. It was still
there, but it was slightly open. James gasped in fear, then felt inside. His
fingers found the smooth folds of cloth. He could even smell that haunting
smell of leaves and earth and living, breathing winds. He heaved a gigantic
sigh of relief.
With the trunk open, James wondered if there was anything he might
need for his adventure at the island. He glanced around at the unruly pile of
clothes and supplies on the end of his bed. After a moment's consideration,
he grabbed the Marauder's Map and the Invisibility Cloak. He clapped the
trunk shut, used his wand to lock it, and then, having left his backpack on
the table in the hospital wing, he stuffed the map and the cloak into a leather
book bag his mum had given him at the beginning of the year. He turned

and clumped down the stairs quickly, stopping only to remind Noah, Petra,
and Ted about Delacroix's powers.
"Don't worry," Noah said, jumping up and heading for the stairs. "We'll
take turns keeping an eye on your trunk. One-hour shifts, right Ted?"
Ted nodded. Satisfied, James ducked through the portrait hole to go
meet Ralph and Zane.
Five minutes later, as he came out of the courtyard and onto the
grounds, James' eyes were too dazzled from the interior lights to be able to
see clearly in the darkness. He felt his way down the slope toward the lake
until he heard Zane whistling, apparently trying to sound like a bird. The
sound came from his left, and as James turned toward it, he was finally able
to make out the bulk of the giantess standing at the edge of the woods. Zane
and Ralph were huddled nearby.
"That was pretty good, wasn't it?" Zane said, grinning. "I saw that in a
James Bond movie. I thought you'd appreciate it."
"Nice," James nodded. The cool of the night air settled over him and
James felt a wild sense of excitement and fear. This was it. There was no
turning back. Even now, his absence from the hospital wing was probably
being discovered. There might be trouble tomorrow, but if they failed now,
there'd be even worse trouble to come. James glanced up at Prechka. "Will
she let us ride on her shoulders? It's the only way we'll get there in time."
Prechka heard him. In answer, she bent down, making the earth
shudder as her knees struck the hillside. "Prechka help," she said, trying to
keep the boom out of her voice. "Prechka carry small ones." She grinned at
James and her head, now at his level, was nearly as tall as he was. Zane,
Ralph, and James took turns scrambling up her arm and onto the giantess'
great, sloping shoulders. James needed Ralph and Zane to help him up, as
his splinted right arm was almost no use to him. When she stood, it was like
riding a freight elevator into the treetops. Without a word, she began to
lumber into the forest. The upper branches of the trees swept past,
occasionally groaning as Prechka pushed them aside like reeds.

"How does she know where she's going?" James asked in a hushed
voice.
Ralph shrugged. "Grawp told her. I don't know how, but apparently, it's
a giant thing. They just remember where they've been and how to get there
again. It's probably how they find each other's hovels in the mountains. I
didn't understand the language at all, but she seems pretty sure of herself."
Riding Prechka was an altogether different experience than riding
Grawp. Where the he-giant had been careful and delicate, the giantess
swayed and thumped, her footsteps shuddering up her body and shaking the
boys. James thought it was rather like riding on a gigantic walking
metronome. The forest swam past, eerie from this strange, high perspective,
as if it were clawing at the sky. After a while, James tugged on the giantess'
burlap tunic. "Stop here, Prechka. We're close and I don't want them to hear
us coming, if we can avoid it."
Prechka put out a hand, halting herself against a huge, gnarled oak
tree. Carefully, she lowered herself and the boys climbed off her shoulders,
sliding down her arm to the ground.
"Wait here, Prechka," James said into the giantess' enormous, lumpy
face. She nodded slowly, seriously, and then stood again. He could only
hope that her understanding of their wishes was better than Grawp's, who
had wandered off in search of food after only a few minutes when he'd
brought them out here last year.
"This way," Zane said, pointing. James could see the glitter of
moonlight on water through the trees. As quietly as possible, the boys
threaded through the tree trunks and underbrush. Within a few minutes, they
emerged at the perimeter of the lake. The island of the Grotto Keep could
be seen further along the edge of the water. It loomed monstrously, grown
to gothic, cathedral proportions for its ultimate night. The dragon's head
bridge was clearly visible, open wide, both welcoming and threatening at
the same time. James heard Ralph gulp. Silently, they made their way
toward it.

As they reached the opening onto the bridge, the moon slipped from
behind a raft of wispy clouds. The island of the Grotto Keep unveiled fully
in that silvery glow. There was virtually no hint of the wild, wooded nature
of the island now. The dragon's head bridge was a carefully sculpted horror,
yawning open before them. At its throat, the vine encrusted gate was as
solid-looking and ornate as wrought iron. James could clearly read the
poem inscribed on the doors.
"It's closed," Zane whispered, rather hopefully. "Does that mean
anything?"
James shook his head. "I don't know. Come on, let's see if we can get
in."
Single file, the three boys tiptoed across the bridge. James, in the lead,
saw the bridge's upper jaw open further as they approached the gate. It
didn't creak this time. The motion was silent and oily, almost unnoticeable.
The gates, however, remained firmly closed. James made to reach for his
wand, and then stopped, hissing in pain. He'd forgotten about the splint on
his fractured right arm.
"Ralph, you'll have to do it," James said, sidling to the right to let
Ralph in front of him. "My wand hand's no use. Besides, you're the spells
genius."
"Wh-what am I supposed to do?" Ralph stammered, pulling out his
wand.
"Just use the Unlocking Spell."
"Whoa, wait!" Zane said, throwing up a hand. "Last time we tried that,
we were almost tree food, remember?"
"That was then," James said reasonably. "The island wasn't ready.
Tonight's the night it exists for, I think. It'll let us in this time. Besides, this
is Ralph. If anybody can do it, he can."

Zane grimaced, but couldn't offer any argument. He took a step
backwards, giving Ralph room. Ralph pointed his wand at the gates
nervously, his wand hand shaking. He cleared his throat.
"What is it? I always forget!"
"Alohomora," James whispered encouragingly. "Emphasis on the
second and fourth syllables. You've done it loads of time. Don't worry."
Ralph stiffened, trying to halt the shivering of his arm. He took a deep
breath and, in a tremulous voice, spoke the command.
Immediately the vines twining the gates began to loosen. The letters of
the poem dissolved into curls and tendrils, contracting from the wooden
shapes of the doors. After a few seconds, the doors swung silently open.
Ralph glanced back at James and Zane, his eyes wide and worried. "Well, it
worked, I guess."
"I'd say so, Ralph," Zane said, moving forward. The three of them
stepped carefully into the darkness beyond the gates.
The inside of the Grotto Keep was circular and mostly empty,
surrounded by trees that had grown into the shapes of pillars, supporting a
thick, domed ceiling of branches and spring leaves. The floor of the grotto
was terraced with stone, forming steps that descended toward the middle.
There, in the very center, a round bowl of earth was lit in a beam of bright
moonlight that pierced a hole in the center of the domed canopy. The
Merlin throne stood in that beam of moonlight, and in front of it, silhouetted
against the moonlight, her back to them, was Madame Delacroix.
James felt weak with fear. He froze in place, and only distantly felt
Ralph's hand groping at him, tugging him backwards into the shadow of
one of the tree trunk pillars. He stumbled a little, and then dropped down

behind the bulk of the tree, next to Ralph and Zane. Carefully, slowly,
James peered around the tree-pillar, his eyes wide and his heart thundering.
Delacroix hadn't moved. Her back was still to them, and she was still
staring motionlessly at the throne. The Merlin throne was tall, straightbacked and narrow. It was made of polished wood, but was somehow more
delicate than James had expected. The mass of it was formed of carvings of
vines and leaves, curling and tangled. The only solid parts were the seat and
the center of the backrest. The throne looked as if it had been grown rather
than carved, much like the Grotto Keep itself. No one else was visible.
Apparently, Delacroix had arrived early. James was wondering how long
she'd been standing there, motionless, watching the throne, when there was
the sound of someone else's footsteps behind them, on the dragon's head
bridge. James held his breath, and sensed Ralph and Zane hunkering down
as low as they could next to him, hiding among the low underbrush lining
the Keep.
A man's voice spoke a low command in some strange language James
didn't recognize. It sounded both beautiful and frightening. There was the
sound of the gate's vines unfurling again, and then footsteps clacked
hollowly on the stone steps of the terraced floor. Professor Jackson moved
into view, walking resolutely down into the center of the Grotto Keep
behind Madame Delacroix.
"Professor Jackson," Madame Delacroix said, her heavily accented
voice ringing in the stone bowl of the grotto, "you never fail to meet my
expectations." She still hadn't turned around.
"Nor you mine, Madame. You are early."
"I was savoring de moment, Theodore. It's been a long time coming.
I'd be tempted to say 'too long', if I was a believer in chance. I am not, of
course. This is how it was meant to be. I have done what I was meant to do.
Even you have performed the role you were preordained to perform."
"Do you really believe so, Madame?" Jackson asked, stopping several
feet behind Delacroix. James noticed that Jackson had his hickory wand in

his hand. "I wonder. I, as you know, am neither a believer in chance nor
destiny. I am a believer in choices."
"It matters not what you believe, Theodore, as long as your choices
lead to the right ends."
"I have the robe," Jackson said flatly, abandoning the pretense of polite
conversation. "I have always had it. You will not get it from me. I am here
to see to that. I am here to stop you, Madame, despite your best efforts to
keep me away."
James almost gasped. He covered his mouth with his hand, stifling it.
Jackson was here to stop her! But how? James felt a cold dread dawning on
him. Next to him, Ralph whispered almost silently, "Did he say…"
"Shh!" Zane hissed urgently. "Listen!"
Delacroix was making a strange, rhythmic sound. Her shoulders shook
slightly with it, and James realized she was laughing. "My dear, dear
Theodore, I have never attempted to thwart you. Why, if I had not allowed a
token resistance to your presence on dis trip, you'd have never chosen to
come at all. Your stubbornness and suspicious nature are my best tools. And
I needed you, Professor. I needed what you had, what you believed so
ardently dat you were protecting."
Jackson stiffened. "Do you believe I was foolish enough to bring the
robe with me tonight? Then you are more arrogant than I thought. No, the
robe is safe. It is secured with the best hexes and counter-Accio charms ever
created. I know that, for they were created by me. You shall not find it, of
that I am certain."
But Delacroix was laughing harder. She still hadn't turned around. The
beam of light illuminating the chair seemed to be growing brighter, and
James realized it was the accumulated light of the planets. They were
moving into place. The time of the Hall of Elders' Crossing was nearly upon
them.

"Oh, Professor, your confidence cheers me. With enemies such as
yourself, my success is all the more delicious. Do you think I haven't known
all along dat you guarded the robe of Merlinus in your case at all times? Do
you think I was not preparing for de robe to be delivered to me from the
moment I first arrived here? I haven't had to lift so much as a finger, and yet
de robe comes to me of its own accord dis very night."
James had a horrible thought. He remembered that day in Defense
Against the Dark Arts, when Jackson had followed Professor Franklyn into
the classroom, speaking in low tones. Madame Delacroix had come to the
door to tell Jackson his class was waiting. James had glanced down at that
moment, and the case had mysteriously come open. Was it possible that
Madame Delacroix had caused that to happen, just so that James would see
inside? Had she tried to use him somehow? He remembered Zane and
Ralph saying that the capture of the robe had been easy. Somehow too easy.
He shuddered.
"James," Ralph whispered urgently, "you didn't bring the robe with
you tonight, did you?"
"Of course not!" James replied. "I'm not crazy!"
Zane leaned in to keep his voice as quiet as possible. "Then what's in the
book bag?"
James felt terror and anger mingling inside him. "The Marauder's Map and
the Invisibility Cloak!"
Ralph reached up and clutched James' shoulder, turning him so that
they were face to face. Ralph's expression was horrible. "James, you don't
have the Invisibility Cloak!" he rasped, his voice cracking. "I do! You left it
with me in the Slytherin holding pen, remember? I used it to escape! It's in
my trunk, back in the Slytherin boys' quarters!"
James simply stared at Ralph, petrified. Below them, in the center of
the Grotto Keep, Madame Delacroix continued to cackle.

"Mr. James Potter," she called through her laughter, "please feel free to
join us. Bring your friends if you so desire."
James felt rooted to the spot. He wouldn't go down there, of course. He
would run. He knew now that he had the robe of Merlinus in his book bag,
that he had been tricked into bringing it along, tricked into thinking it was
the Invisibility Cloak. Now was the moment to flee. And yet he didn't.
Ralph pushed him, urging him to go, but Zane, on James' other side, slowly
stood up and pulled out his wand.
"The voodoo queen thinks she's pretty smart," he said out loud,
stepping around the pillar and pointing his wand at her. "You're as ugly as
you are evil. Stupefy!"
James gasped as the bolt of red light shot from Zane's wand. The curse
struck Madame Delacroix directly in the back and James watched for her to
collapse unconscious. She didn't move, however, and James was dismayed
to see that the bolt of red light had passed straight through her. It struck the
ground near the throne and vanished harmlessly. Delacroix was still
laughing as she turned to face Zane.
"Ugly, am I?" Her laughter dried up as her gaze met Zane's. She was
no longer blind or old. It was, in fact, her wraith, the projected version of
herself. "Evil? Perhaps, but only as a hobby." The wraith of Madame
Delacroix raised a hand and Zane was lifted from his feet roughly. His
wand flew from his hand and he thumped against the tree-pillar, his shoes
three feet from the ground. He seemed to be stuck there, as if on a hook. "If
I was truly evil, I would kill you now, wouldn't I?" She grinned at him, and
then pivoted, pointing her arm at the place where James hid. "Mr. Potter,
please, it is silly of you to fight me. You are, after all, almost my apprentice
in dis endeavor. Bring Mr. Deedle with you. Let's all enjoy the spectacle,
shall we?"
Jackson had turned when Zane came forward, watching with a
noticeable lack of surprise, his wand still out, but pointed at the floor. Now
he looked on as James and Ralph stood jerkily, as if against their will, and

began to march down the steps toward the center of the grotto. His eyes met
James', his bushy dark brows low and furious. "Stop, Potter," he said
quietly, raising his wand halfway, pointing it at the floor in front of James
and Ralph. Their feet stopped moving, as if they'd suddenly landed in glue.
"Oh, Theodore, must you prolong dis?" Delacroix sighed. She swung
her arm toward him and performed a complicated gesture with her fingers.
Jackson's wand flicked out of his hand as if on a string. He grabbed for it,
but it darted up and away. Delacroix made another gesture with her hand,
and the wand snapped in midair, as if broken over a knee. Jackson's face
didn't change, but he slowly lowered his hand, staring hard at the two pieces
of his hickory wand. Then he turned back to Delacroix, his face white with
fury, and began to pace toward her. Delacroix's hand moved like lightning,
darting into the folds of her clothing and coming out with her horrible
graperoot wand between her fingers.
"Dis may only be a representation of de real thing," she said playfully,
"conjured from the dirt of dis place, just like dis version of myself, but I
assure you, Theodore, it is exactly as powerful as I think it is. Don't make
me destroy you."
Jackson stopped in his tracks, but his face didn't change. "I can't let
you go through with this, Delacroix. You know that."
"Oh, but you already have!" she cackled gleefully. She pointed the
wand at Jackson and flicked it. A bolt of ugly orange light shot from it,
sending Jackson flying violently backwards. He landed hard on the upper
stone steps, grunting in pain. He struggled to get up, and Delacroix rolled
her eyes. "Heroes," she said disdainfully, and flicked her wand again.
Jackson flew off the ground and rammed against another of the tree-pillars
lining the grotto. He hung there, apparently knocked unconscious.
"And now," she said, lazily pointing her wand in the direction of James
and Ralph, "please, join me."
The two boys were lifted from the ground and transported down the
rest of the steps. They dropped clumsily to their feet in the grassy space at

the bottom of the grotto, directly in front of the wraith of Madame
Delacroix. Her eyes were emerald green and piercing. "Give me de robe.
And please, don't make me harm either of you. I only ask de one time."
The book bag slipped off James' shoulder and struck the ground at his
feet. He looked down at it, feeling dazed and completely hopeless. "Please,"
Delacroix said, and flicked her wand. James fell to his knees as if
something extraordinarily heavy had landed on his shoulders. His hand
plunged into the bag, clutched the robe, and pulled it out. Ralph struggled to
grab it, but he seemed locked in place, unable to move more than a few
inches in any direction. "Don't, James!"
"I'm not," he said hopelessly.
Delacroix's eyes sparkled greedily. She reached out a hand and
delicately took the robe from James. "Free will is highly overrated," she
said airily.
"You won't win," James said angrily. "You don't have all the relics."
Delacroix looked up from the robe, meeting James' eyes with an
expression of polite surprise. "Don't I, Mr. Potter?"
"No!" James said, gritting his teeth. "We didn't get the broomstick.
Tabitha still has it. I'm not even sure if she knows what it is, but I don't see
her bringing it to you now, either way." He hoped he was right as he said it.
He didn't see the broomstick anywhere in sight, and Tabitha certainly didn't
seem to be present, unless she was hiding, like they had been.
Delacroix laughed lightly, as if James had just made a very witty
remark at a party. "Dat was de perfect hiding place, wasn't it, Mr. Potter?
And Miss Corsica is such the perfect individual to harbor it for me. Why,
it's so perfect, in fact, that you never stood a chance of learning that it was,
in fact, a clever lie. Interesting as it may be, Miss Corsica's broomstick is
nothing more than a convenient ruse. No, like de robe, de Merlin staff has
also found its way to me tonight, regardless of what you might think. It has
been cared for very well, in fact."

The rather beautiful wraith of Madame Delacroix turned to Ralph and
held out her hand. "Your wand, please, Mr. Deedle."
"N-no," Ralph protested, his voice almost a moan. He tried to back
away.
"Don't make me insist, please, Ralph," Delacroix said, raising her own
wand toward him.
Ralph's hand jerked up and went to his back pocket. Trembling, he
produced his ridiculously huge wand. For the first time, James saw it for
what it was. It wasn't just unusually thick, whittled to a point at one end. It
was part of something that was, at one time, much larger, worn down with
age, but still, as had been repeatedly shown, extremely and inexplicably
powerful. Delacroix reached out and, almost daintily, plucked the Merlin
staff from Ralph's hand.
"Dere was no point in my risking my own capture by smuggling such
a thing onto the grounds. Surely someone would have detected it, had it
been in my possession. Thus, I arranged for it to be sold to you and your
charming father, Mr. Deedle. I was your salesman, in fact, though in a
different guise. I do hope you enjoyed the use of the staff. Quite powerful,
wasn't it? Oh, but now I see," she added, turning almost apologetic, "you
thought that it was you who was de powerful one, didn't you? I'm so sorry,
Mr. Deedle. Did you really think you'd have been allowed to enter the Keep
if you hadn't had de staff of Merlin with you? Surely even you can see de
humor in dat, can't you? You, a Muggle-born. Please, forgive me." She
laughed again, lightly, maliciously.
She turned then, and very carefully began to arrange the relics on the
throne. James and Ralph looked at each other miserably, and then James
tried to look back at Zane, who was still stuck to the treepillar behind them,
but the darkness was too thick.
Madame Delacroix stepped back from the throne, breathing in a great,
long breath of anticipation. She positioned herself between Ralph and

James, as if they were compatriots. "Dere we go. Oh, I am so pleased. I do
hate to say it, but everything has worked out exactly as I had planned.
Enjoy the spectacle, my young friends. I cannot guarantee dat Merlinus will
not destroy you with his arrival, but surely you do not think dat too high a
price to pay to observe such a thing."
"It'll be worth it if it destroys you, too," James said through gritted
teeth.
"Such venom," Delacroix replied, smiling. "No wonder you made such
a good apprentice."
The robe of Merlin had been draped across the back of the throne, as if
Merlin would simply shrug into it when he appeared. The last bit of
Merlin's staff leaned against the front of the throne. The beam of combined
moon and starlight had become very bright, drawing a dim line through the
darkness from the hole in the domed ceiling to the center of the grassy area
below. The three relics glowed in the shimmering, silvery light. The time of
the Hall of Elders' Crossing had come.
James heard something. He knew Madame Delacroix and Ralph had
heard it, too. All three turned their heads, trying to locate the source of the
noise. It was low and whispering, coming from all directions at once. It was
tremulous and distant, almost like a low note on a hundred far-off flutes, but
it was growing louder. Madame Delacroix glanced about, her face a mask
of glee, and yet James was sure that, wraith or not, there was a hint of fear
on her face as well. She suddenly gripped both boys' arms in her steely
hands. "Look!" she breathed.
Tendrils of mist were pouring in between the pillars of the grotto,
bringing the sound with them. James glanced around. The tendrils were
seeping in between the branches of the domed ceiling as well. They were as
insubstantial as smoke, but moved intelligently, with growing speed. They
snaked toward the throne, and there they began to collect. As the tendrils
combined, they writhed and collapsed, forming only hazy shapes at first,
and then hardening, coming into focus. A line of slightly curved, horizontal
bars coalesced in the center of the throne. With an involuntary shudder,

James saw that they were the ribs of a skeleton. A spine grew from them,
both up and down, connecting to two more shapes, the skull and the pelvis.
This, James realized, was an Apparition happening in extreme slow motion.
The atoms of Merlin were streaming back together, fighting the collected
inertia of the centuries. The sound that accompanied the Apparition was
growing both in volume and pitch, rising through the octaves and becoming
almost human.
"Hey, voodoo queen," a voice immediately behind James suddenly
said, making all three of them jump. "Dodge this."
A length of log slammed down onto Delacroix's head, disintegrating
it into a hundred clods of wet dirt. Instantly, the Body-Bind Curse on both
James and Ralph fell away. James spun and saw Zane holding the end of the
log, pulling it back out of the mess of Delacroix's wraith, which was
struggling to rebuild itself. From the shoulders up, Delacroix seemed to be
made entirely of broken dirt, writhing roots and worms. The wraith's hands
scrabbled at the ruined neck, trying to push the clods back into shape.
"She forgot about me when Merlin started forming!" Zane shouted,
yanking the log free and hoisting it back over his shoulder. "I fell off the
pillar and just grabbed the closest heavy thing I could find. Get the robe and
the staff!" Zane swung the log like a baseball bat, taking off one of
Delacroix's arms at the shoulder. It hit the ground and shattered into a mess
of dirt and worms.
James jumped forward and snatched a handful of Merlin's robe,
reaching his left hand through the forming shape of the wizard. He pulled,
but the robe fought back, struggling to maintain its position. Digging his
heels into the soft earth, James yanked as hard as he could. The robe wrung
from the back of the throne, coming through the skeletal shape seated on it.
The shape gripped the arms of the throne and seemed to scream, bringing
the pitch of the haunting drone up another octave. Ralph lunged and
grabbed at the staff, which was growing in length even as the figure on the
throne gained solidity. He jumped back with it, holding it high over his
head.

The wraith of Madame Delacroix seemed caught between trying to
reform itself and trying to get the robe and the staff back into place. It
waved its remaining arm wildly at Ralph, then clawed at the robe in James'
hands. Zane danced behind the wraith, the log held high, then brought it
down again, burying it almost waist deep in the disintegrating figure. James
glanced toward the Merlin throne and saw that the figure there, which had
formed to a full skeleton with ghostly musculature clinging to it like moss,
was writhing horribly, beginning to melt again into mist. The sound of
Merlin's Apparition had become a keening shriek.
And then, as if out of nowhere, another figure was among them. It
resolved from the darkness beyond the Grotto Keep, moving with terrible
speed. It was the dryad with the horribly long, blue fingernails, but only just
barely. There was something else moving within the shape, as if the dryad
was merely a costume. A new voice joined the keening wail of the half
formed Merlin.
Master! No! I will not fail you! Your time has come at last!
The figure split somehow, completely abandoning the form of the
dryad. It became simply two enormous, black talons. They lunged
simultaneously at James and Ralph, snatching the robe and the staff back
and sending the two boys sprawling to the stone steps. The talons spun,
placing the relics back into their positions, and then retracted, falling into
dust, as if exhausted.
The figure on the throne shuddered violently, drawing itself back
together, and the tendrils of mist roared toward it, solidifying now with
terrible speed. The bones grew muscles, layer upon layer. Organs bloomed
inside the chest and abdomen, forming from the veins out. The body filled
the robe, and the robe took shape over it. Skin collected on the body like
dew, first as a filmy membrane, but thickening, growing ruddy and tan. The
fingers clutched the staff, which had grown to a length of six feet, tapered
gently at the bottom and with a heavy, knobbed end. Runes ran up and
down the staff, pulsing with a faint green light. The noise of Merlin's return
resolved into a long scream, and the wizard finally ran out of breath, his

head thrown back, the chords of his neck drawn taut as wire. After a long
moment, he drew his first breath in a thousand years, filling his huge chest,
and lowered his head.
Master! a ghostly voice cried out. James looked from the figure on the
throne to the shape that had resolved out of the awful talons. It was a small
man, almost invisible. He panted, his bald head glistening in the faint
moonlight. You have returned! My work is complete! I am released!
"I have returned," the voice of Merlin agreed. The face was stony, the
eyes locked onto the ghost. "But what time is this you have returned me to,
Austramaddux?"
Th-the world is made ready for you, Master! the ghost stammered, its
voice high and frightened. I… I waited until the perfect time for your
coming! The balance of the magicked and the magicless is ripe for your
hand, Master! The time… the time is come!
Merlin stared at the ghost, utterly unmoving.
Please, Master! Austramaddux screamed, falling to his ghostly knees. I
have watched for centuries! My duty… my duty was more than I could bear!
I waited as long as I could. I only helped a little! I found a woman, Master!
Her heart was open to me! She shared our goals, so I… I encouraged her! I
helped, but only a little! A little!"
Merlin's gaze moved from Austramaddux to the wraith of Madame
Delacroix, which had mostly reconstituted itself. It flung itself to its knees,
and when it spoke, the voice sounded as if it came through a mouthful of
dirt. "I am your servant, Merlinus. I have summoned you to fulfill your
destiny, to lead us against de Muggle worms. We are prepared for you. The
world is ripe for you."
"This puppet of filth is to be my muse?" Merlin said, his voice low but
nearly thundering with intensity. "Let us see her as she is, then, not as she
wishes to be seen."

Delacroix straightened herself and began to speak, but nothing came
out. Her jaw worked, almost mechanically, and then, chillingly, deep
choking sounds began to emerge from her throat. The wraith's hands floated
upwards, rising to clutch at the neck, then to scrabble at it, digging in with
long fingernails so that strips of muddy flesh began to peel away. The throat
bulged, almost like that of a bullfrog, and the wraith suddenly bent at the
waist, as if it was going to be sick. Merlin's eyes blazed at the wraith and
his staff glowed softly, the runes rippling with their inner light. Finally,
violently, Madame Delacroix's wraith heaved and the jaw split wide open,
far past its logical limits. Something ripped forth from the yawning, horrible
mouth. It poured out onto the ground before it. The wraith's body shrunk as
the mess poured from its mouth. It was almost as if the wraith turned inside
out, emptying itself out of its own mouth, until all that was left was the
thing lying prone on the ground, writhing and awful. It was Madame
Delacroix as she really was, somehow transported from her remote place of
safety and vomited from her puppet form. She wracked against the floor as
if in great pain, her shape emaciated and bony, her eyes blank grey orbs,
staring blindly at the ceiling.
"Austramaddux, you have brought me to a dead time," Merlin said, his
low voice filling the grotto like the roar of a thousand deeps. He turned
away from the pathetic shape of Madame Delacroix, returning his gaze to
the cowering ghost. "The trees have awakened for me, but their voice is
nearly mute. Even the earth sleeps the sleep of centuries. You have returned
me to suit yourself and yourself alone. You were a faulty servant when I
agreed to apprentice you, and I have returned only to realize the depth of
that mistake. I discharge you from my service. Begone."
Merlin raised his free hand and held it, palm out, toward the ghost of
Austramaddux. The ghost paled even further and shrank away, raising its
hands as if to deflect a blow. No! No, I was faithful! Please! Do not
discharge me! I fulfilled my duty! I was faithful! Nooo!
The last word elongated and rose in pitch, climbing the scale as the
ghost seemed to shrink. For a moment, it assumed the form of the blue
dryad, cringing and desperate, then it began to lose its shape entirely. It
dwindled, and James saw that it contracted in the same proportion as

Merlin's closing hand, as if the wizard were squeezing Austramaddux in his
outstretched fist. The ghost's last word bled into a wail of horror,
diminishing even as the ghost collapsed into a bright, flickering point of
light. Merlin squeezed his fist, and then opened his hand with a roll of the
fingers. The ghost popped, vanished, leaving only the echo of its final
scream.
Finally, as if noticing them for the first time, Merlin turned his
attention to James, Ralph, and Zane. James moved forward, not sure what
he would do, but knowing in his heart he had to do something. Merlin
raised his hand again, this time towards James. James felt the world soften
around him, darkening. He fought it, tried to shout out against the
descending oblivion, but it was no use. He could fight the power of Merlin
as much as a gnat might fight a gale. The world streamed away, funneling
down to a point, and at the center of the point was the upraised hand of
Merlin, pulling him in. There was an eye in the center of the hand, blue like
ice. The eye closed, and Merlin's voice said one word, a word that seemed
to fill the blackness where the world had once been, and that word was
'sleep'.

18.

The Tower Assembly

Dawn was a faint pink line on the rim of the horizon when James
opened his eyes. He was lying uncomfortably on the grass at the bottom of
the Grotto Keep, and he was cold to the bone. Moaning, he rolled to a
sitting position and took stock of his surroundings. The first thing he
noticed was that the Merlin throne was gone. There wasn't as much as a
depression in the grass where it had stood. The second thing James noticed
as he raised his head and looked around was that the Grotto Keep was no
longer a magical place. In the absence of the Merlin throne, the island was
quickly returning to its wild, random nature. The sense of haunting, gothic

architecture was slipping away. Birds sang in the thatch of tree branches
overhead.
"Oh-hh," a voice nearby groaned. "Where am I? Somehow, I have the
terrible feeling that a cup of coffee and a fireplace is not about to appear
before my eyes."
"Zane," James said, getting shakily to his feet. "Are you all right?
Where's Ralph?"
"I'm here," Ralph muttered. "I'm just taking inventory of all my bones
and major bodily functions. So far, nothing alarming, except that I need a
bathroom even more than St. Lokimagus."
James climbed the steps into the gloom of the upper terraces of the
grotto. The early morning light was faint and grey, barely making it through
the brush and trees of the island. Zane and Ralph were climbing unsteadily
to their feet.
"Merlin's gone," James said, looking around. "And I don't see Jackson
or Delacroix, either." He stepped over the broken bits of Jackson's wand and
shuddered.
"Guess we were wrong about him, weren't we?" Ralph said.
"We were wrong about loads of stuff," James agreed softly.
Zane rubbed his lower back and groaned. "Hey, we didn't do too bad,
considering everything. We almost stopped Merlin's return, thanks to a
handy length of log and my catlike reflexes." His voice sounded hollow in
the flat echo of the grotto, and he fell silent. The three boys found the
opening that led out to the dragon's head bridge, hacked through some
weeds that had grown up to choke the space, and stumbled out into the
dawn. The bridge had partially collapsed, and bore almost no resemblance
to the frightening dragon's head anymore. The bank bordering the forest
was muddy and wet, covered in morning dew.

"Hey look," Ralph said, pointing. There were tracks in the fresh,
slippery mud.
"Looks like two people went that way. Away from the school," Zane
said, bending over to study the sloppy markings. "You think one of them
was Merlin?"
James shook his head. "No. Merlin wasn't wearing shoes. That looks
like Delacroix and Jackson to me. She probably left first, and then he set
out after her when he came to. Besides, something about Merlin tells me he
doesn't leave tracks unless he makes a point of it."
"I hope Jackson breaks her in half when he catches her," Zane said, but
without much passion.
"I hope she doesn't break him," Ralph replied morosely. "You saw
what she did to his wand."
"Don't remind me," James muttered. "I don't want to think about it."
He began to walk forward, heading generally into the woods where they'd
left Prechka, but with no real destination in mind. He had a terrible
suspicion about where Merlin had gone, and he, James, was responsible for
that. Twice, Delacroix had called him her apprentice. She had influenced
him, somehow, and he'd allowed it. He had played right into her plan,
bringing the robe to her. She was right. She hadn't had to lift so much as a
finger. True, things hadn't seemed to work out very well for her in the end,
but that didn't mean much. A lone, rogue Merlin might be even more
dangerous than a Merlin in league with people like the Progressive
Element. At least they tried to operate under a guise of respectability.
Merlin was from a different time, a more direct and deadly time. A nearly
crushing weight of guilt and hopelessness pressed down on James as he
plodded forward. Zane and Ralph followed quietly.
Prechka was gone. James wasn't surprised, really. Her footprints were
pressed into the dewy earth like dinosaur tracks. Without a word, the boys
followed them, shivering and wet with dew. Mist filled the woods, reducing

the world to a handful of black trees and dripping bushes. As they walked,
the mist grew bright, absorbing the sun, and finally began to burn away.
The forest awoke with bird song, and the scampering of unseen creatures in
the brush. And then, surprisingly, there were distant voices, calling for
them.
"Hey!" Zane said, stopping and listening. "That's Ted!"
"And Sabrina!" Ralph added. "What are they doing out here? Hey!
Over here!"
The three boys stopped and called to the two Gremlins, who responded
with hoots and hollers. A gigantic shape loomed out of the mist, moving
almost delicately through the trees.
"Grawp!" Zane laughed, running to meet the giant.
"Boy, you three look like Inferi leftovers," Ted called down from
Grawp's shoulders. "You spent the whole night out here?"
"It's a long story, but yes," Zane called up. "Short version: Merlin's
back, the voodoo queen's on the run, and Jackson was a good guy after all.
He's after her as we speak, results unknown."
"Is there room up there for three more, Grawp?" Ralph said, shivering.
"Only, I think if I have to take one more step, I'll drop dead."
Grawp knelt and the three boys clambered onto his back, crowding in
with Sabrina and Ted. Before climbing up, James flexed the fingers and
wrist of his right hand. There was no pain, and the bones of his arm seemed
sturdy and straight. He stripped off the splint and jammed it carelessly into
his pocket.
"How'd you two get out?" James asked Ted when he was crammed in
next to him, holding handfuls of Grawp's straw-like hair for support. "I
thought all of you were under house arrest."

"That was last night," Ted said simply. "Things have gone pretty crazy
at the school since then. Merlin showed up in the middle of the night, and
let me tell you, that bloke knows how to make an entrance."
"He rode Prechka right into the courtyard and had her kick the front
doors in," Sabrina explained. "He obviously speaks Giant, and he had her
really wild. Then he climbs off and just puts her to sleep. She's still there,
snoring next to the main entrance like the world's largest pile of laundry."
"We all woke up when we heard the noise of the doors being smashed
in," Ted went on. "After that, it was pandemonium. Students running all
over the place in their night clothes, trying to figure out what's going on.
People were already pretty uptight, what with that Prescott guy still on the
grounds and nobody knowing what he's up to. And then here's this bloke
who's built like a boulder and dressed like a cross between a druid and
Father Christmas, stalking through the school, putting people to sleep with
barely a look, clacking this enormous staff on the floor as he goes, loud
enough to echo around the whole place. Then he sees Peeves and the
weirdest thing happens!"
"What?" Zane asked hopefully. "Did Peeves blow a raspberry at him
and get turned into a floor lamp or something?"
"No," Sabrina said, "Peeves joined him! He didn't seem to want to, but
he did anyway. Merlin stopped when he saw Peeves, and then he spoke to
him. None of us knew what he was saying. It was in some really weird,
flowery language. We were worried that Peeves would do something stupid
and get us all zapped with that creepy staff, but then Peeves just grins, and
it isn't like any of his normal grins. It's the kind of grin you see on a houseelf when the master is just as prone to wallop the elf with a frying pan as
look at it. A whole lot of teeth and not much humor, you know? And then
Peeves swoops down next to the guy. They talk for few seconds in low
voices, and then Peeves moves off, slow enough for Merlin to follow.
Merlin had a place in mind he wanted to go, I guess, and Peeves took him
there."

"Peeves?" Ralph said incredulously.
"I know," Ted replied. "It isn't natural. That's when we knew we were
dealing with somebody really scary. Most of us Gremlins had already
guessed he was Merlin, but that proved it."
"So where'd they go?" James asked in a quiet voice.
"Sylvven Tower," Sabrina answered. "At least that's what it used to be
called. Nobody uses it for much anymore. Word came down that he was
awaiting a 'parley with the Pendragon', whatever that means."
"I don't like the sound of that one bit," Zane said.
"Nobody does," Ted agreed. "Apparently, he thinks that this
'Pendragon' is the king or leader. It's some kind of medieval challenge or
something. Anyway, McGonagall gathered the faculty to go and deal with
him, and that's when she realized that both Professor Jackson and Delacroix
were gone. Then word comes that you've gone missing from the hospital
wing, James. Next thing we know, McGonagall is sending us off to find the
three of you. She was too busy to come herself, but she knew if anybody
could sniff you out, we could. She seems to suspect you three might know
something about this 'infernal mess', as she put it. Suspicious old girl, isn't
she?"
As Ted finished speaking, Grawp finally carried them out of the edge
of the forest. The castle shone in the brilliant morning sunlight, its windows
sparkling gaily, despite the turmoil within. The Garage of the Alma Alerons
was quiet, its door flaps closed and tied shut. James remembered the time
difference between the Hogwarts and the Philadelphia side of the Garage,
and knew that those on that side would still be fast asleep. When Grawp
turned the corner into the courtyard, Ted called for him to lower them to the
ground.
"Great job, Grawp!" Sabrina said warmly, patting the giant on his
enormous shoulder. "Go take a rest with Prechka, why don't you?" Grawp

grunted agreeably and lumbered over to the she-giant, who was indeed
snoring loudly next to the steps into the castle. The massive wooden doors
were hanging from one hinge each, smashed inward and gaping. The
Entrance Hall was eerily empty and silent. As they entered, Ralph gasped
and grabbed James' arm, pointing. There, lying awkwardly on the floor near
the door, were Mr. Recreant and Ms. Sacarhina. Both had their eyes open
and were grinning unnaturally at the ceiling. Sacarhina's arm was
outstretched, sticking up and looking pasty white in the morning light.
"Are they… d-dead?" Ralph stammered.
Ted lightly kicked Recreant's foot. "Not likely. They're still warm and
they're breathing. Just really, really slowly. They were apparently down here
in the hall when Merlin arrived. Looks like they tried to greet him and he
just zapped them, somehow. He put loads of students to sleep, but these two
got some special freezing treatment. Anyway, we pulled them out of the
way so people wouldn't trip over them." He shrugged and led them past the
two prone figures, into the halls beyond the staircases.
"Where's Sylvven Tower?" James asked as they hurried through the
corridors.
"It's the tallest tower in the old part of the castle. Narrowest, too," Ted
answered, his voice uncharacteristically somber. "Not used for much
anymore except stargazing sometimes. It's too tall and treacherous to climb.
Petra says that it was an important part of the castle a long, long time ago.
Every castle had one, and it was considered neutral ground, sort of like a
universal embassy or something. Meetings between warring nations and
kingdoms were held there, with one king on one side and the enemy king on
the other. Four advisors were allowed to accompany them, but the rest had
to wait below. Occasionally, wars would be decided and ended right there,
sometimes with one leader killing the other and throwing the body from the
top of the tower for all to see."
James felt his heart sink even lower. "So who's up there with him,
then?"

Ted shrugged. "Dunno. We got sent off to find you three while
McGonagall was still getting everybody together. I assume she meant to
meet him herself. She was looking pretty peaked about it, if you ask me."
The five students walked through a wide, low arch, entering the oldest
and least used section of the castle. After several curving, narrow corridors,
they finally encountered people. Students were gathered in the corridors,
lining the walls and talking in hushed voices. Finally, Ted led them into a
round room with a very high ceiling, so high, in fact, that it was invisible in
the dark, foggy heights of the tower. The floor was crowded with students,
muttering in nervous anticipation. A rickety wooden staircase spiraled up
the throat of the tower. After a cursory glance upwards, Ted began to climb
the stairs. James, Zane, Ralph, and Sabrina followed.
"McGonagall's up there with… him?" Ralph asked. "How, er, good is
she?"
"She's the Headmistress," Sabrina answered seriously. "She's good."
"I hope so," James said quietly.
They climbed the rest of the way in silence. It took quite a long time,
and James was feeling remarkably tired and achy by the time he reached the
top. Ralph was wheezing behind him, pulling himself up with both hands
on the thick banister. Finally, however, the stairs opened onto a room that
filled the top of the tower. It was low, thick with heavy rafters and dust and
centuries of owl and pigeon guano. Narrow windows marched around the
perimeter of the room, revealing slices of morning sunlight. There were
several people present, although none of them appeared to be the
Headmistress or Merlin.
"James," a thick voice said, and a hand fell on his shoulder, "what are
you doing here? This is no place for you, I'm afraid."
"He was summoned, Professor Slughorn," Sabrina said, following the

others into the room. "The Headmistress herself asked us to bring him, as
well as Ralph and Zane. They are to go up right away."
"Up?" Ralph wheezed. "There's more? This isn't the top?"
"Ah, Mr. Deedle," Slughorn said, spying Ralph. "Yes, I am afraid there
is, but only a bit more. It is directly above us. Are you quite sure about this,
Miss Hildegard? This is hardly the place for children." James thought
Slughorn seemed a bit ruffled that he, Ralph, and Zane might be expected to
go up while Slughorn himself was not.
"You were in the room when the Headmistress sent us to find them,
Professor," Ted said, allowing a hint of sternness to creep into his voice.
"So I was," Slughorn acknowledged, as if the fact proved little.
"Let them proceed, Horace," Professor Flitwick said from a bench near
the window. "If they are summoned, they are summoned. They are hardly
any safer with us here if that savage prevails."
Slughorn stared at James, and then, with an apparent force of will,
softened his expression. He turned to Ralph and clapped him stiffly on the
shoulder. "Represent us well, Mr. Deedle."
Ted motioned toward a short stone staircase that protruded through the
wooden floor and up to a trapdoor in the ceiling. James, Ralph, and Zane
approached and climbed the worn steps slowly. The trapdoor wasn't locked.
James pushed it open and sunlight poured in, blinding him momentarily as
he climbed onto the surface above.
It was almost exactly the same size and shape as the Grotto Keep,
made almost entirely of stone but for the wooden floor in the center, from
which the trapdoor opened. Marble pillars surrounded the space, but there
was no roof. The morning sunlight filled the top of the tower, dazzling on
the white marble and stone terraces. Merlin sat only a few feet away, facing
the three boys as they emerged into the soft wind and warm sunlight. His
face was stony and immobile, only his eyes moving to watch them.

"Mr. Potter," the Headmistress' voice rang out in the stillness, "Mr.
Walker, and Mr. Deedle. Thank you for joining us. Please, find your places
on my left. We will come to your tale shortly."
James turned as Zane lowered the trapdoor closed. McGonagall was
seated behind them, across from Merlin. She was dressed in a flame red
robe both far graver and more ostentatious than James had ever seen her
wear. It made her look both younger and dreadful, like a sort of tyrant
queen. The chairs that she and Merlin sat upon were embedded in the stone
of the lowest terrace so that both looked at each other across the wooden
floor in the center. On McGonagall's left, arranged along the rim of the
highest terrace, were four more carven seats, although they were much less
ornate. Seated on them were Neville Longbottom, Professor Franklyn, and
Harry Potter.
"Dad!" James breathed, a smile of relief and joy surfacing on his face.
He ran up the steps toward his father.
"James," Harry said quietly, his face grim, "I was told you had gone
missing. You had us very worried. I would have gone after the three of you
myself, except that we received word you'd been found only moments after
I arrived."
"How did you find out?" Ralph asked, furrowing his brow.
Harry allowed a crooked smile and held up a Weasley rubber duck. On
the bottom, Ted's handwriting was scrawled: Found them! Be there straight
off! "This is Petra Morganstern's, but she said they got the idea from you
three. Very handy."
"I'm sorry I took the map and your cloak, Dad," James said in a rush.
"I know I shouldn't have. I really made a mess of things. Merlin's back and
it's all my fault."
Harry darted his eyes meaningfully at the chairs in the center of the

space. "Don't be too hard on yourself, my boy. We'll have loads of time to
discuss this later. For now, I think we have other matters to attend to."
James turned back toward the Headmistress and Merlin. He'd nearly
forgotten about them in the excitement and relief of seeing his dad. "Sure.
Sorry." The three boys remained standing along the top terrace, next to
Harry, Neville, and Franklyn. James noticed for the first time that the
opposite side of the terrace was occupied by a surprising number of birds
and creatures, all of which were staring hard at Merlin. There were owls
and pigeons, ravens and even a few falcons, all arranged on the ledge of the
railing, on the four carven seats, and on the floor of the top two terraces.
Sitting incongruously among them, also staring at the bearded man, were a
variety of creatures James recognized as house animals. Frogs and rats
jostled slightly among the birds. Even Zane's cat, Thumbs, was there, sitting
near the front, his black and white nose twitching slightly.
"You were saying, Professor Longbottom?" McGonagall said, her gaze
still locked on the huge, unmoving form of Merlin.
Neville stirred and stood. "I simply wish to register my objection to
your speaking to this… this intruder, who has violently entered this school
with who knows what nefarious purpose in mind, in a language that we,
your long time associates and friends, cannot understand or follow.
Between that and your, I must admit, surprising attire… well, surely you
must know how this looks to us."
"I apologize, Mr. Longbottom, and the rest of you," McGonagall said,
finally looking away from Merlin and meeting the eyes of those gathered to
her left. "I had forgotten myself. This gentleman comes from a time of
formality and ritual. I am meeting him as he expects to be met, in the
ceremonial robe of my station. I am afraid that when he first found us, he
assumed that all of us, including myself and the faculty, were peasants who
had somehow managed to overrun the castle. It was extremely unbecoming
in his time for the Pendragon to appear in the sort of colorless sacks that he
mistook our robes for. As for the language…"
"I can speak in the language of your servants, if you wish it, Madam

Pendragon," Merlin interrupted in his low, carrying voice. "Although why
you deign to speak to them as equals when they should be stropped for such
impertinence, I cannot guess."
McGonagall sighed and closed her eyes. James had the sense that these
sorts of misunderstandings had been going on for some time. "These are my
associates, not my underlings, sir. This is a different time, as I fear I must
keep reminding you. I am not the Pendragon of a kingdom. I am Pendragon
only of a tiny portion of land, all of which is within sight of this tower. But
yes, please do speak so that all of us may understand."
"As you wish, Madam," Merlin answered. "I assume your council is
fully present, then?"
"It is. James Potter, Ralph Deedle, Zane Walker," the Headmistress
said, looking at each boy in turn. "This man claims to be Merlinus
Ambrosius, returned to the world of men from an age of nothingness, by the
combined arrangement of his ghostly apprentice and five other individuals.
What can you tell us of this tale?"
James answered, explaining, as well and honestly as he could how the
three Merlin relics came to be combined in the island of the Grotto Keep.
He was careful to proclaim, to his own shame, how Professor Jackson had
meant to protect the robe and keep it from the grotto, foiling Madame
Delacroix's plan, but that James had inadvertently ruined his intentions.
"It was my fault," he explained miserably. "Ralph and Zane only
helped because I talked them into it. I wanted to…," he paused and
swallowed, "I wanted to save the day, I guess. But I ruined everything. I'm
sorry."
McGonagall's face was calm but unreadable as James finished. He
hung his head, but a moment later, he felt his dad's hand on his shoulder,
warm and heavy. He sighed.
Merlin let his gaze sweep over the gathering on and near the benches,
then he slowly filled his chest. "Austramaddux's plan abused the intentions

of many, I see, some good and some bad. I assume, however, that after this
boy's testimony, there is no doubt about my identity. Allow me to repeat,
then: I have been, it seems, the subject of a very dire campaign of lies and
slander. It has apparently become accepted lore that I was, in my own time,
a capricious and dishonorable creature, a man of selfish alliances and
endless guile. This is no truer than the litany of virtues embroidered into the
history of this Voldemort villain you have described to me. I was no more
evil than a storm is evil. I killed only when there was no hope of repentance
or slavery. I collected dues only from those who deserved to pay, and even
then, a third of my purse went to the poor and the church. I am no horror to
be sought after by the pathetic creatures whom you gratuitously call 'evil',
whose own wickedness is hardly a candle to the torches of iniquity I have
observed in my own time."
"I've no doubt you believe that," McGonagall stated, "but surely you
know that the legends of the dark heart of the world's most powerful wizard
began even before you stepped outside of your own time, while you still
walked the earth. Many lived in fear of you."
"Only those whose wickedness or ignorance lent them to that error,"
Merlin rumbled. "And even in their case, I would more likely have
approached them with the rod instead of the sword."
"That may be so, Merlinus, but you yourself know that you dabbled in
arts that, while technically allowed in your time, were not very allowed.
You exposed yourself to currents of magic that separated you from the rest
of humanity, currents that were, in fact, more than most human beings could
touch and remain sane. You were changed by that dabbling. Perhaps even
warped by it. Even you must have doubted your own judgment at times.
The ambiguous morality of Merlinus Ambrosius was well-known, as was
his cavalier attitude towards the lives of the non-magicked. It was
legitimately suspected that you might side with those who wished the
destruction and subjugation of the Muggle realm. I cannot speak for your
own time, but in ours, those who wish war upon the Muggle world are our
sworn enemies. Your allegiance must be decided before we can allow you
to leave these halls."

"You dare to challenge the nobility of such as me?" Merlin asked, his
voice smooth and calm. "And to suggest that I could not merely wipe you
all from the earth with a sweep of my arm if I so wished?"
"I dare to do both, and for good reason," McGonagall said firmly. "You
were of questionable motive in your own time, as even the best historians
agree. You remain so in this time. And in regard to your powers, they may
be formidable, but even in your time, the current from which you drew your
power was waning as the earth was tamed. Don't pretend that that wasn't
your greatest reason for stepping out of time. You hoped to return to an age
when the current of the earth was restored, when your power would once
again be uninterrupted and complete. But this is not that time. The current is
more parsed than ever. Your power may still be great, and you might indeed
defeat those gathered here, but you are by no means unstoppable. Choose
carefully with whom you ally in this age, Merlinus."
Merlin's face remained as impassive as stone as he stared at the
Headmistress. "I have truly returned to a time of darkness if the Pendragon
believes that a mere threat of doom might sway the convictions of an
honorable wizard. But I see that you are honest in your motive, even if your
methods are mean. I have never foresworn allegiance to any whose hearts
were turned hard against the non-magicked. I worked to maintain the
balance between the magical and Muggle worlds, to keep the scales from
tipping one toward the other, though none would have guessed my true
aims. I serviced all, but always with that goal in my heart. Fairness is a
myth among a fallen humankind, but equality of struggle can be
maintained, even if it is only a pale ghost of true fairness."
"You speak well, Merlinus," the Headmistress said, "but you have not
stated your purpose plainly. Are you here to overthrow us or to work
alongside us?"
For the first time, Merlin's face showed emotion. He closed his eyes
and pressed his lips together. His beard glistened with what James assumed
was some sort of oil. Occasionally, the scent of it, wild and spicy, wafted in
the breeze of the tower's top. "Austramaddux deserved the fate I dealt him,

and perhaps a hundredfold, for returning me to this time." He opened his
eyes again, and looked around at the assembly. "I approach a castle of the
most solid construction I've ever witnessed, filled with glittering eyes of
hardened sunlight, and yet I find no sentry, no vanguard, not so much as a
servant to fill my bath or demand protocol. You meet me with no
recognition of my status and no blessing upon my head, wearing the clothes
of jesters and field boys, and yet you are surrounded by tables of plenty, on
plates as round and smooth as the planets. The Pendragon herself is not
revered or waited upon, but dresses like her minions in shapeless bags of
tenting. And then, above all, my honor and allegiance is challenged, when I
myself only refrain from demanding tribute out of respect for a foreign age.
Truly, my mission has become as dust. There is no age ripe for me."
"Selfish Austramaddux may have been," McGonagall agreed, leaning
slightly forward, "but it may not be a mistake that you were returned to this
time, Merlinus. It was thought that you would lead the rebellion against the
Muggle world, but if your claims are true, then you may have been brought
here by an even greater providence so that you might aid us in preventing
just such a tragedy. Even now, the powers of chaos have set in motion
events that will lead to that end. This very day, a man resides among us, a
Muggle man. He has been led here by agents of disorder, and he has
bypassed our greatest defenses using a form of unmagic called 'technology'.
He has access to an engine called 'the press' by which he can make known
the secrets of the magical world to the rest of humanity. It is only by
maintaining that secret for the past millennium that the balance of powers
has existed. If this man and his secret plotters succeed, they will abuse the
recombination of the magical and Muggle world. They will plot divisions,
seek power, and eventually, they will spawn a war. You, more than anyone,
know what the result of such a scheme would be. You must help us. Those
who plot chaos are expecting you. Let them eat the fire they intended to
turn upon the world, Merlinus. Aid us."
Merlin sat perfectly still for almost a minute, his beard glistening in the
sun. The animals fidgeted slightly, noses twitching and feathers ruffling.
Finally, Merlin stood, and it was like watching a mountain rise from its
foundation. He moved with slow, massive grace until he was fully erect, his

staff held upright next to him, his piercing blue eyes settling on the
Headmistress.
"You are correct, Madam," Merlin said, his voice flat and undeniable.
"It was my selfish aim to leave my own age only to find a time when my
power would be restored in fullness. Arrogance is my iniquity, and it has
undone me. I have returned now only to find my power cut to pieces, far
more than it was in my own time. I beg your forgiveness, as a man of honor,
but I am both unable and unwilling to rise to the post you have described
for me. This is no longer my world. Perhaps you will prevail without me.
Perhaps not. I cannot see any future in this time apart from knowing that the
sun will arise tomorrow and travel across the heavens as it has done for the
thousand years of my absence. Whether it shines down on war or peace,
truth or lies, I know not, but I do know this: it will shine upon a world that
knows me not, nor I it. I take my leave of you now, Madam. I bid all of you:
fare thee well."
Merlin raised his arms, holding his staff aloft. As one, the birds on the
railings and benches launched from their perches. There was a thunderous
sound as hundreds of wings beat the air. When the mass of birds broke
apart, streaming from the top of the tower in all directions, there was no
sign of Merlin.
James stared hard at the space where the great wizard had been
standing. It was over. There was nothing left. Harry turned James around
and folded him into his arms. "It's all right, son," he said. James didn't
believe anything was all right, but he was glad for the words anyway. He
hugged his dad back.

"I wonder if he's really gone for good," Neville mused out loud.
"I've no doubt he means for us to believe that," the Headmistress
replied, arising from her chair on the tower platform. "But the fact of the

matter is that he has nowhere to go. His servant, Austramaddux, has
apparently been banished to the netherworld, thus Merlinus has no
apprentice in this age to arrange for his reappearance if he should choose to
step out of time again. I fear we must assume that Merlinus is with us, for
better or worse. Mr. Potter, can he be tracked?"
Harry thought for a moment. "Difficult, but not impossible. He will
probably retreat to the protection of the woodlands, where his power is
strongest. No doubt, he has many methods of surviving and hiding there,
but a wizard of such abilities will always leave a detectable magical wake. I
believe we can locate him, given a team of Aurors and enough time. The
question is: what do we do with him when we find him?"
"We must secure his intent," Franklyn said somberly, slowly
approaching the chair Merlin had occupied. "Merlinus is a creature of
mystery and confusion. Despite his words, I sense that he himself does not
trust his own allegiances. Things were much clearer in his time. Did you
sense it as well? He is unsure in this age. He doesn't know who to trust,
whose aims most reflect his own. This is made worse by the fact that, as
you pointed out, Headmistress, Merlin's own morality is ambiguous at best.
He retreats now in order to examine his own heart as much as to study the
factions of this age."
"Do you really believe that, Professor?" Harry asked.
Franklyn had produced the same brass device he'd used to examine
James' broken arm on the Quidditch pitch. He was peering through it,
studying the chair Merlin had occupied. He nodded slowly. "I do. Merlin
admitted to us that pride is his greatest weakness. He cannot allow us to see
his own lack of surety. But there is no doubt of it. He doesn't know where
he stands in this age because he doesn't know where he stands in his own
heart, and only now does he realize it."
"That doubt won't last forever, though," Neville said, stepping down
the terraces toward the wooden floor. "We can hardly sit back and wait until
he decides whose side to join. His power may be diminished, but I'd wager

he is still unmatched by any single wizard alive today. We have to assume
he is with our enemies until he determines he is our ally."
Harry was shaking his head. "I agree that he may be unsure in this
time, but I don't think he's evil. Or at least, not willfully evil."
"What do you mean?" Zane interjected. "He's been sought after by the
most evil wizards for the past thousand years or so, hasn't he?"
"Not the most evil wizards," McGonagall said pointedly.
"That's true," Harry agreed. "Only those who were confused or warped
enough to believe their aims were good, somehow. Those who knew their
hearts were evil, whose eyes were open to their own wickedness and
embraced it, they never sought him. At least, as far as we know."
"Let us repair to our offices for now," McGonagall said, sighing. "Our
day has barely begun and we already have far more to manage than we
rightly know how. Besides, I wish to alleviate myself of this unbearable
costume as soon as possible."
Franklyn heaved the trapdoor open and the group began to file down
the steps. The animals that had gathered on the tower platform threaded
down as well, scampering and hopping around the groups' feet. Slughorn
and the rest of the professors gathered below greeted them with worried
faces and a flurry of questions. Ignoring them, James followed his dad
down the spiral steps toward the far distant floor.
"How'd you get here so fast, Dad?" he asked. "Merlin didn't get here
until the middle of the night. How'd McGonagall get hold of you so
quickly?"
"It wasn't the Headmistress that brought me here, James," Harry
replied, glancing over his shoulder at his son. "It was your letter. Nobby
delivered it this morning, and I came as soon as I read it. The Headmistress
was as surprised as anyone when I showed up in her office fireplace."

"But Sacarhina said you were off on some special assignment and
weren't to be bothered!"
Harry laughed humorlessly. "It was that detail in your letter that
proved I needed to get here right away, James. I'm doing nothing but desk
work this week. If Sacarhina says I'm on assignment, that's just because she
wants to make sure I'm not here."
"Yeah," James nodded. "The portrait of Snape told us Sacarhina and
Recreant are both no good. They're in on all this Progressive Element stuff."
Harry stopped on the stairs, turning back to James, Ralph, and Zane.
"Be careful who you mention that to," he said, lowering his voice. "The
Ministry is riddled with people like Recreant and Sacarhina these days,
although for most of them, it's just a way to appear a little daring and
trendy. Hermione does what she can to fight the propaganda and weed out
the instigators, but it's complicated. Recreant is only a tool, but Sacarhina is
dangerous. I think she's the mastermind behind the return of Merlin, in
fact."
"What?" James said, dropping his voice to match his dad's. "That can't
be. It was Madame Delacroix in the grotto last night."
"Yeah, Sacarhina didn't even arrive until yesterday evening," Zane
added.
Harry's expression was grave. "Sacarhina isn't the kind of person to get
her hands dirty with any of the actual work. She needed Delacroix for that,
and Delacroix herself couldn't have gotten the Merlin throne out of the
Ministry without Sacarhina on the inside, helping her. Recreant and
Sacarhina are only here now because they claim to be escorting an 'expert in
Muggle-magical relations' to deal with this Prescott person. There is no
such expert. They were expecting to produce Merlin himself, and pass him
off as that expert."
"So they never intended to stop Prescott from revealing the magical
world to the Muggle press!" Ralph said, his face white. "Sacarhina and

Merlin were supposed to work together to make sure Prescott got his story
out, weren't they?"
Harry nodded. "That's what I think. This is all no coincidence. It's
exactly the sort of thing people like Sacarhina have been hoping for all
along. The recombination of the Muggle and magical world is essential to
their final plan for all-out war."
"But Merlin turned out to be on nobody's side but his own, after all,"
James said. "Does that ruin their plan?"
"I don't know," Harry sighed. "Things have been put in motion that
will be very hard to stop now. Sacarhina may no longer need Merlin for this
part of the plan."
Zane asked, "So how are you planning to stop Prescott?"
"Stop him? I'm not even supposed to be here, remember? Sacarhina is
in charge."
"But she's evil!" James exclaimed. "You can't just let her run the
show!"
"We won't, James," Harry said, putting a hand on James' shoulder, but
hardening his voice. "But we have to be very careful. Sacarhina has a lot of
influence in the Ministry. I can't just defy her. She's hoping that I'll do
something rash, something she can use against me. She wants the Auror
Department shut down entirely. Keeping that from happening is of utmost
importance. Even more so than protecting the secrecy of the magical
world."
"So Sacarhina and Delacroix win?" James said, looking his dad in the
eye.
"In the short run, perhaps. But don't lose hope, any of you. Neville, the
Headmistress, and I have a few tricks up our sleeves. We will survive the

day, no matter what happens with Prescott. The only question now is who
led him here in the first place?"
"Well, it would've been Sacarhina, wouldn't it?" Zane suggested.
"No, couldn't be," James sighed. "She's signed the Vow of Secrecy, just
like every other witch and wizard. If she'd tried to tell Prescott anything,
even through a letter, the vow would have stopped her somehow. Besides,
she wouldn't know anything about how a GameDeck worked or how it
could be used to lead somebody to Hogwarts."
Voices and footsteps echoed from the spiral of stairs above them. The
Headmistress and the professors were descending behind them. Harry
gestured for the boys to follow him the rest of the way down.
"That's the only part of this that really baffles me," Harry said as he
tromped down the stairs. "Every witch and wizard is bound by the Vow of
Secrecy. Any Muggle parent of a student is bound by their own contract of
non-disclosure. That means no one who knows about the magical world
would be capable of spreading the secret. And yet someone obviously did. I
intend to find out who."
By the time they neared the last curve of the staircase, the
Headmistress, Neville, and the rest of the professors had caught up to them.
McGonagall called down to the students who were waiting below.
"Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we are all returning to you
whole and well." She stopped and regarded the assembly from above. "In
order to dispel rumors and quell any fears, I intend to be quite forthright
about what has been, and still is, occurring here today. Two men have found
their ways rather unexpectedly into these halls over the course of the last
two days. The first is still here. His name is Martin Prescott and he is a
Muggle. His intentions are quite questionable, but I can assure you that we,
your faculty, are prepared to--"
"Thank you, Minerva," a high, ringing voice interrupted. "I have, in
fact, already briefed the students on today's events. I appreciate your

thoroughness, however. Do join us, won't you?" Sacarhina and Recreant
stepped out of the crowd of students and moved to the head of the staircase.
Sacarhina's smile was large and glinting in the dusty light of the tower floor.
McGonagall stared down at her for a long moment, and then turned to
address the students again. "In that case, I expect you all have classes to
attend to. Your professors shall kindly lead you to your classrooms. Let us
make what we can with the rest of the day, shall we?"
"Do you really believe it is necessary for classes to go forward today,
Minerva?" Sacarhina said when the Headmistress and the rest of the troupe
reached the bottom of the steps. "This is rather an unusual day."
"Unusual days are the best days for classes, Miss Sacarhina,"
McGonagall replied, stepping past the woman. "Reminds everyone why we
are here in the first place. If you'll excuse me."
"Harry," Mr. Recreant said, smiling a bit too enthusiastically. "I admit,
Brenda and I hadn't expected to see you here today. Family occasion, is it?"
He turned his grin on James, and then flashed it over Ralph and Zane as
well.
Harry smiled stiffly. "I'm equally surprised to see the two of you here. I
didn't see any paperwork about a return trip to meet with the Alma Alerons.
And I've been doing an awful lot of paperwork, as you know."
Sacarhina took Harry's arm, and he allowed her to lead him out of the
tower, following the last of the students. "Very unexpected, this is," she said
in a confidential tone of voice. "Dreadful situation. Surely Minerva told you
about it? Martin Prescott, a Muggle reporter, right here on the grounds.
Still, the Ministry feels it is inevitable, really."
"Does it?" Harry said, stopping near the door and facing Sacarhina.
"So Loquatious Knapp knows about this?"
"The Minister is aware of the general direction events have been
leading," Recreant interjected. "We hadn't chosen to bother him with the
particulars, per se."

"So he doesn't, in fact, know you are here?" Harry said, dropping his
thin smile.
"Harry," Sacarhina said silkily, "the fact is that this sort of scenario is
exactly the purview of the Department of Ambassadorial Relations. You, of
course, do not require the signature of the Minister for every little maneuver
of the Auror Department. Nor do we require his approval when dealing with
the execution of our daily duties. Do you intend to stay for the day?"
"I believe so, Brenda," Harry answered calmly. "I am curious to see
what the Department of Ambassadorial Relations does to execute its daily
duties in such a situation. Besides, surely you'd agree that an outside,
objective witness might prove helpful in case of any… inquiries?"
"Suit yourself, Mr. Potter," Sacarhina said, her smile snapping shut
like a jewelry box. "It will all be over by four o'clock this afternoon.
Prescott's crew will arrive and they will get their tour. There is hardly any
way to prevent it, after all, considering Mr. Prescott's very ingenious failsafes. You may accompany us, but please do not attempt to interfere. It
would not go well for you. But I am sure I do not need to tell you that, do
I?"
"Did you have a nice snooze down there by the front doors?" Zane said
lightly as Sacarhina turned away. She stopped, and then very slowly turned
back toward Zane.
"Whatever could you mean, young man?" she asked. Harry was
looking at Zane with a mixture of curiosity and amusement.
Zane went on, "You two were both down there to meet Merlin when he
made his grand entrance last night, but he was apparently looking for bigger
fish than you, wasn't he? He gave you both the old evil eye and froze you
on the spot. Come on, now, that's gotta hurt."
Sacarhina's smile eased back onto her face, as if it was the default

expression at times when her brain was working hard on something else.
Her eyes moved back to Harry. "I simply don't know what you've been
filling these poor children's heads with, Mr. Potter, but it really doesn't do
for Ministry officials to tell such stories. Merlin, of all things." She shook
her head vaguely, then turned and walked through the archway with Mr.
Recreant following nervously.
"You sure have a way with people, Zane," Harry said, grinning and
ruffling the boy's hair.
"My dad says it's a gift," Zane agreed. "My mom says it's a curse. Who
can tell?"
"It looked like Miss Sacarhina was more confused than angry," Ralph
mused as they walked through the archway, leaving the Sylvven Tower.
"Could be," Harry replied. "It might be that everyone Merlin put to
sleep forgot about him as well. She may have no recollection of his coming
last night."
"So she still expects him to show up when she takes Prescott and his
crew on the grand tour?"
"Perhaps. Although it won't trip her up for long when he doesn't show.
Merlin's probably halfway across the Forbidden Forest by now, getting
directions from the tree sprites, now that they're apparently awakened."
James stopped in the middle of the corridor. A few paces later, Harry
stopped as well and turned to look back at his son. James' face was wideeyed and thoughtful. Suddenly, he blinked and looked at his dad.
"I need to go to the Forbidden Forest," he said. "It's not too late. Dad,
will you come with me? Zane, Ralph, you too?"
Harry didn't ask his son any questions. He studied James' face for
several seconds, and then glanced down at Zane and Ralph. "What do you
two think? You up for playing a little hooky?"

James walked purposefully into the forest, followed at a short distance
by Harry, Zane, and Ralph. He threaded through the smaller trees at the
perimeter, heading into the deeper heart of the forest, where the trees were
huge and ancient and the sun was all but blocked out by rafters of dense
foliage. For several minutes, the foursome walked in silence, and then,
finally, James stopped. He turned on the spot, looking up into the shushing
leaves and gently creaking branches. There were no other sounds. Harry,
Zane, and Ralph stood twenty feet away, watching quietly. James closed his
eyes for a moment, thinking, and then opened them again and spoke.
"I know a lot of you aren't awake," he began, looking up into the
looming heights of the trees, "and I know that some of you who are awake
aren't on our side. But the ones who are will hear me, and I hope you'll help.
Merlin is out there somewhere. He may be far, far away by now, but even
so, I think you know where he is. He talks to you, and I am betting you talk
to him, too. I know tree sprites can talk, because we've already met one of
you. I have a message for Merlin."
James stopped and took another deep breath, not entirely sure what he
meant to say. It had simply occurred to him that he should try. He had been
used by Delacroix to help bring Merlin into the world, despite the best
efforts of those who'd wished to prevent it. The knowledge that he'd
allowed himself to be manipulated was horrible to him. All this time, he'd
believed he was doing good, saving the world from evil, walking in the
steps of his hero father. And yet his best intentions had been warped against
him, against the world he'd hoped to protect. He'd tried to do it alone, like
his dad had done, but he'd failed. He'd aided evil. And now evil expected
him to give up. James didn't intend to give up, though. Maybe now he could
try to help in a different way. It was probably a long shot, probably utterly
hopeless, but he had to try. Maybe this was his way, after all.
"Merlin," James said uncertainly, "you said that Austramaddux made a
mistake in bringing you to our time. You said he was selfish, that he just
wanted to get out of the duty he swore to you. But Headmistress
McGonagall thinks that you're wrong. She thinks that this is the very time
you were meant to return to, because this world needs your help to stop a

war that might destroy us all. Well… I know I'm just a kid, but I think
you're both wrong."
James glanced back at his dad. Harry gave a small shrug and nodded.
"I listened to everything you said, and what everybody said after you
left, and I think you were brought to this time because you need something.
You don't know for sure if you've really ever done right or wrong. You don't
know if you controlled your powers or if they controlled you. I think the
truth is that the world does need you now, but that you need this world, too.
This is your chance--maybe your last chance--to prove that you are a good
wizard after all. People have wondered for centuries whether you were
good or bad, but who cares what the rest of history says about you? If you
know in your own heart that you did the right thing when it really mattered,
then it doesn't matter what anybody else says. I don't say this because I
understand it myself yet, but at least I'm trying to learn it. You're in this
time no matter what, Merlin. Whoever brought you here means for you to
rescue the world, but… I think you're also here to be rescued from
yourself."
James finished and sighed. He looked up, craning his neck and
squinting, searching the trees for some sign that his message had been
heard, and that it might be delivered. The leaves simply continued to skirl
and shush in the breeze. The branches creaked quietly to themselves. After
a minute, James stuffed his hands into his pockets and walked
disconsolately back to his dad, Ralph, and Zane.
Zane clapped James on the shoulder as they turned to leave. "That was
the hokiest pile of salami I've ever heard," he said jovially. "But I think you
meant it. I liked it, even if it never does get to Merlin's ears."
"Did you come up with that all by yourself?" Ralph asked. James
shrugged and smiled sheepishly.
Harry didn't say anything as they walked, but he put his arm around
James' shoulder and kept it there the whole way back. James thought it
meant his dad approved, even if it wasn't the way he himself would have

done it. And then James realized, with some contentment, that his dad
approved because it wasn't the way he'd have done it. James smiled and
enjoyed that moment of quiet revelation. Maybe learning this truth--the sort
of truth that one has to learn on his own, despite all the people who'd tried
to teach it with mere words--was worth everything that had happened so far.
He only hoped that it was worth more than what might still be to come.

19. Secrets Unveiled
Harry joined James, Zane, and Ralph for a very late breakfast in the
house-elf kitchens below the Great Hall. James noticed that the house-elf
operating the enormous stove bellows was the grumpy house-elf who'd told
the three boys they were on probation. He eyed them with unguarded
suspicion, but didn't say anything. They crowded at a tiny table beneath an
even tinier window and ate plates of kippers and toast and drank pumpkin
juice and black tea. Finally, Harry suggested that the boys take a break and
get cleaned up. They were still dressed in the clothes they had worn during
the failed broomstick caper of the day before, and they were all decidedly
grubby from their night in the forest. James was weary to the bone as well,
and determined that he would collapse on his bed for at least ten minutes,
school crisis or not.
On the way to the common room, James decided to take a detour to the

hospital wing to collect his backpack. Philia Goyle and Murdock were no
longer guarding the doors, of course, but James was surprised to see Hagrid
crammed onto one of the benches nearby, flipping through a thick magazine
called Beasts and Boondocks. He glanced up, closing the magazine.
"James, good to see yeh," he said warmly, apparently trying to keep his
voice quiet. "Heard yeh was back safe and sound. Seen your father, then, I'd
wager?"
"Yeah, just left him," James answered, peeking into the cracked doors
of the hospital wing. "What are you doing here, Hagrid?"
"Well, it's obvious, isn't it? I'm keepin' watch, I am. Nobody in nor out
'less it's by permission o' the Headmistress. Needs his rest and 'cuperation,
after all he's been through."
"Who?" James asked, suddenly interested. He peered more closely into
the crack between the doors. There was a shape lying still on one of the
beds, but James couldn't make out any features.
"Why, Professor Jackson, a'course!" Hagrid said, standing and joining
James by the doors. He peeked over James' head with one beady black eye.
"Haven't you heard? Showed up in the courtyard 'alf an hour ago, looking
quite a fright," he whispered. "Caused no end o' commotion when the
students out there caught sight of 'im. We brought 'im in here straight away
and I was given the post of keepin' an eye on the doors while Madam Curio
'tended to 'im."
James looked up at Hagrid. "He's injured?"
"That's what we thought at first," Hagrid said, stepping back. "But
Madam Curio says he's all right except for a few broken ribs, some burns on
'is arms, a nasty bruise on the skull and about a million cuts and scratches.
He's been in a duel, she's says, and a long one, at that. Happened during the
night, out in the forest. That's all we could get out of 'im before he conked
out."

"A duel?" James repeated, knitting his brow. "But Delacroix broke his
wand!"
"Did she?" Hagrid said, impressed. "Now, why'd she go and do a thing
like that, then?"
"She was the one he was dueling against, Hagrid," James said tiredly.
"He and she… look, I'll explain later. But I saw her break his wand in two
pieces. I saw the bits. He left them behind."
"Weerrrll…," Hagrid said, resuming his seat and producing a long,
pained groan from the bench. "He's American, y' know. They like to carry
more'n one wand around. Comes from all that old Wild West lore and all.
They sticks 'em in their boots and up their sleeves and hide 'em in their
canes and such. Everybody knows that, don't they?"
James peered into the crack of the hospital doors again, but he still
couldn't make anything of the shape on the mattress. "Sorry, Professor," he
said quietly. "But I hope you gave her royal hell."
"What's that, James?" Hagrid said, glancing up.
"I just came for my backpack," James answered quickly. "I left it in
there last night."
"I don't s'pose yeh might want to come back later for it, would yeh?"
Hagrid asked earnestly. "Only I've got my orders, here. Nobody in nor out.
The Headmistress thinks that whoever attacked Jackson might come
looking for him. Can't rule out it was that crazy nutter pretending to be
Merlin."
"It was Delacroix, Hagrid. But yeah. I can come back later. Good
work."
Hagrid nodded, and then flopped his magazine open onto his lap again.
James turned and headed back the way he'd come.

The Gryffindor common room was empty. The fire in the grate had
burned down to red embers, but it had warmed up enough outside that it
wasn't necessary anyway. In fact, as James headed up the stairs to the
sleeping quarters, he felt a gust of cool, fresh air push past him. Someone
had apparently left a window open upstairs. He was just wondering if he
should shut it or not when he topped the landing and saw Merlin reclined
comfortably on his bed.
"Here is my little counselor, after all," Merlin said, looking up and
lowering James' Technomancy textbook.
James glanced at the open window next to his bed, then back to
Merlin. "You," he said, his mind boggling slightly. "Did you…" He pointed
uncertainly at the window.
"Did I fly in through it?" Merlin said, laying the book aside almost
reverently. "Lofted upon the wings of my skyborne brethren? What do you
think, James Potter?"
James closed his mouth, realizing that this was a kind of test. He
pushed his first thoughts aside and looked around.
"No," he answered. "No, actually, I think you just opened the window
because you like the air."
"I like the scents of the air, especially this time of year," the great
wizard replied, looking toward the open window. "The essence of growth
and life comes from the earth now, filling the sky. Even the nonmagicked
feel it. They say that 'love' is in the air in springtime. It's close enough to the
truth not to matter, but it isn't love of a man and a woman. It is the love of
dirt for root, and leaf for sunlight, and yes, wing for air."
"But you wanted me to believe that you came in through the window,
didn't you?" James said, feeling carefully emboldened.
Merlin smiled slightly and studied James. "Nine-tenths of magic

happens in the mind, James Potter. The greatest trick of all is to know what
your audience expects to see, and making sure they do."
James approached another bed and sat on it. "Is this what you came to
talk about? Or are you here because you got my message?"
"I have been privy to many things since you last saw me," the wizard
answered. "I have moved in and out, to and fro. I have conversed with
many old friends, reacquainted myself with the earth and the beasts and the
air. I have met very strange things in the forest, articles of this age, and
learned much of the way the world is in this time. I have studied you
yourself and your people."
James smiled slowly, realizing something. "You never left us! You
vanished from the top of the tower, let us think you flew off with the birds,
but you didn't go anywhere, did you? You just turned invisible!"
"You have rather a talent for looking beyond the flat of the mirror,
James Potter," Merlin said, his voice low and his face impassive. "But I will
admit that I did hear everything your Professors Franklyn and Longbottom,
and the Pendragon, and yes, your father, said about me. I was amused and
angered that they presumed to know me so. And yet I am no slave to
arrogance. I asked myself if what they supposed was true. I left then, and I
visited my old lands. I went in and out, to and fro. I studied my own deep
soul as Franklyn supposed I should. And I found there was a shadow of
truth in their words. A shadow…"
Merlin paused for a long moment. James decided not to say anything,
but simply watched the wizard. His face remained utterly immobile, but his
eyes were distant. After no less than two minutes, Merlin spoke again.
"But a shadow was not enough to bring me back to the mire of doublespeak and confused loyalties that pass for battle-lines in this benighted age.
I was far-off, exploring, seeking space and land and uninterrupted earth,
already sinking into the deep language of the wind and the rain, when there
was a new note in the song of the trees. Your message, James Potter."

James was amazed to see that there was finally emotion on the
enormous man's face. He looked at James nakedly, his eyes suddenly wet.
James felt shame for the man's raw expression of anguish. He even felt a
little guilty for his own words, words that had apparently, shockingly,
pierced this enormous man's hidden heart. Then, as if the anguish had never
been there, the massive, stony face composed itself. It was not a matter of
masking the emotion, James realized. He was simply witnessing the
workings of emotion in a man whose culture was utterly alien to him, where
the heart was so close to the surface that deep emotion could pass over the
face shamelessly and completely, like a cloud obscuring the sun but for a
moment.
"Thus, James Potter," the wizard said, standing slowly, so that he
seemed to fill the room. "I return. I am at your service. My soul does indeed
require this. I have learned much of this world during my travels this day,
and I love little of it, but there is a present evil, even though it is masked
with duplicity and etiquette. Perhaps defeating that evil is secondary even to
stripping that evil of its façade of respectability."
James grinned and jumped up as well, not sure whether to shake
Merlin's hand, hug him, or bow. He settled for pumping his fist once in the
air and proclaiming, "Yes! Er, thank you, Merlin. Er, Merlinus. Mr.
Ambrosius?"
The wizard simply smiled, his ice-blue eyes twinkling.
"So," James said, "what do we do? I mean, we only have a few hours
before Prescott and his crew gather to film the school and everything. I
guess I have to explain all that to you. Sheesh, this is going to take a while."
"I am Merlin, James Potter," the wizard said, sighing. "I have already
learned as much as I need to know about this world and how it works. You'd
be quite surprised, methinks, to learn how much the trees know of your
culture. Mr. Prescott is not your problem. We simply need a council of allies
to aid us."

"All right," James said, plopping back onto the bed. "What sort of
allies do we need?"
Merlin's eyes narrowed. "We require heroes of wit and cleverness,
unafraid to foil convention in order to defend a higher allegiance. Battle
skills matter not. What we need at this moment, James Potter, are
scoundrels with honor."
James nodded succinctly. "I know just the group. Scoundrels with
honor. Got it."
"Then let us have at it, my young counselor," Merlin said, smiling a
little frighteningly. "Lead on."
"So," James said as he led Merlin down out of the portrait hole, "do
you think we'll win?"
"Mr. Potter," Merlin said breezily, stepping out onto the landing and
placing his fists on his hips, "you won the moment I decided to join you."
"Is that the famous Merlin pride talking?" James asked tentatively.
"Like I said," Merlin replied, turning to follow James with his long,
slow stride, "nine-tenths of magic happens in the mind. The last tenth, Mr.
Potter, is pure and unadulterated bluster. Take note of that and you'll do very
well."

After the bright, misty morning, the day progressed into a hazy
stillness of unseasonable warmth. Headmistress McGonagall had insisted
that classes continue, even during the tour of Martin J. Prescott and his
entourage, but in spite of her order, dozens of students had gathered in the
courtyard to witness the arrival of the Muggle reporter's crew. Near the
front of the group, James and Harry stood side by side. Only a few feet

away, Tabitha Corsica and her Slytherin compatriots were looking
decidedly bright-eyed and eager. On the top of the main steps, Headmistress
McGonagall was flanked by Miss Sacarhina and Mr. Recreant. Martin
Prescott, on the lowest step, glanced at his watch.
"Are you sure they can get their vehicles in through the way you
described, Miss Sacarhina?" he said, glancing up to where she stood,
squinting in the sunlight. "They will be driving vehicles with wheels, as I've
said. You know. Wheels. There aren't any magical mud bogs or bridges with
trolls living under them or anything, are there?"
Sacarhina was about to answer when the sound of automobile engines
became audible in the near distance. Prescott jumped and spun on the spot,
craning to catch a glimpse of his crew. James, standing near the front of the
crowd of students with his dad, thought Headmistress McGonagall was
handling herself pretty well, considering everything. She merely pressed her
lips tightly together as the huge vehicles rumbled into the courtyard. There
were two of them, and James recognized them as the sort of enormous offroad trucks Zane called 'Landrovers'. The first one ground to a halt directly
in front of the steps. All four doors popped open and men began to emerge,
blinking in the hazy sunlight and carrying large leather bags covered in
thick pockets. Prescott scampered down among the men, calling them by
name, pointing and yelling directions.
"I want lights and reflectors on the left side of the steps, angled toward
the doors. That's where I'll do my final commentary and conduct interviews.
Eddie, you have the chairs? No? All right, that's fine, we'll stand. Sitting
might seem too, you know, established, anyway. We want to keep the
feeling of exposé alive the whole time. Which cameras do you have, Vince?
I want the thirty-five-millimeter handycam on everything. Double film the
whole shoot with it, got it? We'll edit the footage in here and there for that
hidden camera feel. Perfect. Where's Greta with the makeup?"
The crew completely ignored the assembly of students and the
Headmistress and Ministry officials on the steps. All around the trucks was
the well-oiled bustle of men assembling cameras, attaching electrical cords
to lights, stringing microphones onto long poles, and saying "Test," and

"Check," into smaller microphones meant to be clipped to Prescott's shirt.
James noticed a few individuals moving among the group that didn't seem
preoccupied with the technical preparations. They were dressed rather
better and seemed curious about the castle and the grounds. One of them, an
old, balding, friendly-looking man in a light grey suit, ambled up the stairs
toward the Headmistress.
"Quite the fuss, isn't it?" he proclaimed, glancing back toward the
trucks. He bowed slightly toward the Headmistress. "Randolph Finney,
detective, British Special Police. Not quite retired, but close enough not to
matter. Mr. Prescott may have mentioned me? He made rather a big deal of
my being here, it seems. Between you and me, I suspect he'd hoped for
someone a bit more, er, inspiring, if you take my meaning. So this is some
sort of… school, I understand?"
"Indeed it is, Mr. Finney," Sacarhina said, stretching out her hand. "My
name is Brenda Sacarhina, head of the Department of Ambassadorial
Relations for the Ministry of Magic. Today is going to be a very interesting
day for you, I suspect."
"Ministry of Magic. How perfectly quaint," Finney said, shaking
Sacarhina's hand rather distantly. His gaze hadn't strayed from the
Headmistress. "And who might you be, Madam?"
"This is--," Sacarhina replied, but McGonagall, long accustomed to
overriding unwelcome noises, spoke easily over her.
"Minerva McGonagall, Mr. Finney. Pleased to meet you. I am
Headmistress of this school."
"Charmed, charmed!" Finney said, taking McGonagall's hand
reverently and bowing again. "Headmistress McGonagall, I am delighted to
meet you."
"Please, do call me Minerva," McGonagall said, and James saw just
the slightest pained look pass over her face.

"Indeed. And call me Randolph, I insist." Finney smiled at the
Headmistress for several seconds, then cleared his throat and adjusted his
glasses. He turned on the spot, taking in the castle and grounds. "I'd never
known there was a school in this area, to tell you the truth. Especially one
as magnificent as this. Why, it should be on the register of historic places
and no mistake, Minerva. What do you call it?"
Sacarhina began to answer, but nothing came out. She made a tiny
noise, coughed a little, and then covered her mouth daintily with one hand,
a look of mild puzzlement on her face.
"Hogwarts, Randolph," McGonagall answered, smiling carefully.
"Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry."
"You don't say?" Finney replied, glancing at her. "How wonderfully
whimsical."
"We like to think so."
"Detective Finney!" Prescott suddenly called, trotting up the steps, his
face covered in pancake makeup and tissue paper stuffed into the collar of
his shirt. "I see you've already met the Headmistress. Miss Sacarhina and
Mr. Recreant are here to conduct the tour, of course. The Headmistress is
just along for, er, color, as it were."
"And she performs her role quite well, doesn't she?" Finney said,
turning back to McGonagall with a grin. James saw that the Headmistress
was refraining rather heroically from rolling her eyes.
"You have met Miss Sacarhina and Mr. Recreant, then?" Prescott
plowed on, moving between Finney and McGonagall. "Miss Sacarhina,
perhaps you will tell Detective Finney a bit of what it is you do here?"
Sacarhina smiled charmingly and stepped forward, threading her arm
through Finney's in an attempt to lead him away from Headmistress
McGonagall.

"…" Sacarhina said. She paused, then closed her mouth and tried to
look down at it, which produced a rather odd expression. Finney regarded
her with a slightly furrowed brow.
"Are you quite all right, Miss?"
"Miss Sacarhina is feeling just a tad under the weather, Detective
Finney," Recreant said, adopting an ingratiating grin that was no match for
Sacarhina's practiced smile. "Do allow me. This is a school of magic, as the
Headmistress has already mentioned. It is, in fact, a school for witches and
wizards. We--" Recreant's next word seemed to catch in his throat. He stood
with his mouth open, staring at Finney and looking rather like an
asphyxiating fish. After a long, awkward moment, he closed his mouth. He
tried to smile again, showing far too many large, uneven teeth.
Finney's brow was still furrowed. He disengaged from Sacarhina's arm
and glanced between both her and Recreant. "Yes? Spit it out, then, why
don't you? Are you both ill?"
Prescott was very nearly hopping from foot to foot. "Perhaps we
should just begin the tour, then, shall we? Of course, I know my way
around the castle a bit now. We can begin as soon as… as soon as…" He
realized he still had tissues jammed into the collar of his shirt. He grabbed
at them and stuffed them into his pants pockets. "Miss Sacarhina, you had
mentioned that there would be someone else? An expert in explaining
things to the uninitiated? Perhaps now would be a good time to introduce
this person?"
Sacarhina craned her head forward, her eyes bulging very slightly and
her mouth open. After a few seconds of strained silence, the Headmistress
cleared her throat and gestured toward the open courtyard. "Here he is now,
I suspect. You know how Mr. Hubert tends to be rather late sometimes.
Poor man will forget his own head one of these days. Still, he is a genius in
his own way, isn't he, Brenda?"
Her mouth still open, Sacarhina turned to follow McGonagall's

pointing hand. At the opening of the courtyard, another vehicle was
entering. It was ancient, its engine choppy and puttering a pall of blue
smoke. Finney frowned a little as it chugged slowly across the courtyard.
Sacarhina and Recreant stared at the vehicle with twin expressions of pure
bewilderment and disgust. The crowd of students gathered near the steps
moved back as the vehicle squeaked to a stop in front of the first Landrover,
pointing at it. The engine coughed, sputtered, and then died, slowly.
"That's a Ford Anglia, isn't it?" Finney said. "I haven't seen one of
those in decades! I'm amazed it still runs."
"Oh, our Mr. Hubert is very good with engines, Randolph,"
McGonagall said crisply. "Why, he's almost a wizard, really."
The driver's door squeaked open and a figure clambered up out of it.
He was very large, so that the car rose perceptibly on its springs as he arose
from it. The man squinted at the stairs, smiling a little vacantly. He had
long, silvery blonde hair and a matching beard, both of which were offset
by a gigantic pair of black, horn-rimmed glasses. The man's hair was pulled
back in a natty, almost prim ponytail.
"Mr. Terrence Hubert," McGonagall said, introducing the man.
"Chancellor of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Welcome, sir.
Do come and meet our guests."
Mr. Hubert smiled and then glanced aside as the passenger's door of
the Anglia screeched open.
"I hope you don't mind, everybody," Mr. Hubert said, adjusting his
glasses. "I've brought my wife along with me. Say hello to the folks, dear."
James gasped as Madame Delacroix climbed awkwardly out of the car.
She smiled very slowly and deliberately. "Hello," she said in a strangely
monotone voice.
Hubert grinned mistily at her. "She's a dearie, isn't she? Well, shall we

begin, then?"
Sacarhina coughed, her eyes widening rather alarmingly as she
watched Delacroix join Mr. Hubert in front of the Anglia. She nudged
Recreant with her elbow, but he was as mute as she was.
"Chancellor?" Prescott said, looking back and forth between Hubert
and McGonagall. "There's no chancellor! Since when is there a chancellor?"
"I do apologize, sir," Hubert said, climbing the steps with Delacroix by
his side. She grinned a bit wildly. "I've been away for the past week.
Business in Montreal, Canada, of all places. Wonderful little distribution
warehouse there. You know, we only use the highest quality magical
supplies here, of course. I inspect all our materials by hand before ordering
anything. Oh, but I shouldn't say any more, of course. Heh, heh!" Hubert
tapped the side of his nose with an index finger, grinning conspiratorially at
Prescott.
Prescott's face was tight with suspicion. He stared at Hubert, then at
Madame Delacroix. Finally, he held up his hands and closed his eyes. "All
right, who cares? Mr. Hubert, if you are our guide, then guide away." He
threw a glance over his shoulder at the camera crew, gesturing wildly with
his eyebrows, and then followed Hubert into the gigantic open doors.
"Chancellor Hubert, can you tell us and our audience what you do here at
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry?"
"Why, of course," Hubert said, turning as he reached the center of the
Entrance Hall. "We teach magic! We are, in fact, Europe's premiere school
of the magical arts." Hubert seemed to notice the camera for the first time.
He grinned a little nervously into it. "Students, er, come from the farthest
reaches of the continent, and even beyond, to learn the ancient arts of the
mystical masters of the craft. To acquire, to absorb, to, er, steep, as it were,
in the secret arts of divination, illumination, prestidigitation, and, er,
etcetera, etcetera."
Prescott was staring very hard at Hubert, his cheeks reddening. "I see.
Yes, so you admit that you teach actual magic within these walls?"

"Why, certainly, young man. Why ever would I deny it?"
"Then you do not deny," Prescott said in a pouncing sort of voice, "that
these paintings, which line this very room, are magical, moving paintings?"
He gestured grandly toward the walls. The cameraman spun and walked as
quickly and smoothly as he could toward a group of paintings by the
doorway. The boom microphone operator lowered his apparatus, so as to be
sure to capture Hubert's response.
"M-moving paintings?" Hubert said in a distracted voice. "Oh. O-ho
yes. Well, I suspect they could be said to move. Why, that painting there, no
matter where you are in the room, the eyes in the painting are always upon
you." Hubert raised his hands mysteriously, warming to the subject. "They
seem, in fact, to follow you everywhere you go!"
The cameraman took his eye away from the viewfinder and frowned
back at Prescott. Prescott's face darkened. "That's not what I mean. Make
them move! You know they can! You!" He spun on his heels and pointed at
McGonagall. "You had a conversation with a portrait in your office just
yesterday! I watched you! I heard the painting talk!"
McGonagall made a face that was so comically surprised that James,
who was standing just inside the doorway with the rest of the assembled
students, had to suppress a giggle. "I can't imagine what you mean, sir," the
Headmistress replied.
"Here, now, you leave the lady out of this, why don't you?" Finney
said archly, taking half a step in front of the Headmistress, who was a full
head taller than him. "Just you conduct your almighty investigation,
Prescott, and let's get this over with."
Prescott boggled for a few seconds, and then composed himself.
"Ooookay. Forget the moving paintings. Silly me." He turned back to
Hubert. "I presume class is currently in session, Mr. Hubert?"
"Hm?" Hubert said, as if startled. "In session? Well, I… I guess so. I

wouldn't expect--"
"You wouldn't expect we'd like to see, would you?" Prescott
interrupted. "Well, we would. Our viewers have a right to know exactly
what is going on here, right… under… our… noses."
"Viewers?" Hubert repeated, glancing back to the camera. "This is, er,
live? Is it?"
Prescott dropped his head forward and slumped a bit. "No, Mr. Hubert.
It isn't. Didn't any of you tell him how this works? We record it, we edit it,
we broadcast it. Miss Sacarhina, you understood all of this, am I correct?"
He glanced aside at Sacarhina, who smiled and spread her arms. She
mouthed a few words, and then gestured vaguely at her throat. Recreant
cinched his grin a notch higher. His forehead was beaded with sweat.
"Great," Prescott muttered. "I see. Marvelous. Continuing." He straightened
and glared at Hubert again. "Yes, our viewers would very much like to see
what happens in these so-called 'classrooms', Mr. Chancellor. Please lead
the way."
Hubert turned to Delacroix. "What do you think, dear? Divination or
Levitation?"
"Dey are both equally impressive. Honey," Delacroix said, forming the
words rather awkwardly. She seemed to want to say more, but despite the
workings of her jaw, her lips clamped tightly shut.
"My wife is foreign, as you can see," Hubert said apologetically. "But
she does her best."
"The classrooms, please, Mr. Hubert," Prescott insisted. "You can't
keep the press out, sir."
"No, no, of course not. We appreciate the publicity, in fact," Hubert
said, turning to lead the crew down a hall. "Prestigious as we are,
sometimes, it's hard to keep our heads above water. Magic is a, er,

specialized study, to say the least. Only a certain kind of individual has the
patience and grace to learn it. Ah, here we are then. Divination."
Prescott walked briskly into the open doorway of the classroom,
followed by his camera crew and boom microphone operator, scrambling to
keep up with him. Finney remained near the back of the group, staying as
close to Headmistress McGonagall as he could. Harry and James, at the
head of the crowd of curious students, leaned in through the door to watch.
"Here, our students learn the ancient art of predicting the future,"
Hubert said grandly. A dozen students were scattered around the room,
staring grimly down at the objects on the desks in front of them. At the head
of the class, as if on cue, Professor Trelawney raised her arms, producing a
musical jingling from the assortment of bangles on her wrists.
"Seek, students!" she cried in her mistiest voice. "Stare deep, deep into
the face of the all-knowing cosmos, represented in the swirling patterns and
designs of the infinite! Find your destinies!"
"Tea leaves!" Finney said happily. "My own mam used to read fortunes
in tea leaves for the tourists! Got us through some hard times, back in the
day. How perfectly picturesque, keeping such traditions alive."
"'Traditions', pah!" Trelawney said, arising from her seat and swirling
her gauzy robes dramatically. "We find the embedded nature of perfect truth
in the leaves, sir. Past, present, future, all bound together for those who bear
the eyes to see!"
"That's just what my mam used to say, too!" chuckled Finney.
"This is how you tell the future?" Prescott said, staring disgustedly into
one of the students' cups. "This is ridiculous. Where're the crystal balls?
Where's the swirling smoke and the ghostly visions?"
"Well, er, we have those things, too, Mr. Prescott," Hubert said. "Don't
we, dear?"

"Advanced Divination. Second semester. Two hundred-pound lab fee,"
Delacroix replied mechanically.
"Covers the crystal balls," Hubert said behind his raised hand. "Those
things aren't cheap. We have them special made in China. Real crystal and
everything. Of course, the students get to take them home at the end of the
school year. They're kind of a memento."
"I believe you mentioned levitation!" Prescott said, marching out of
the room. His entourage followed swiftly, clanking and unrolling more
electrical cord.
"Certainly, yes. A staple of the magical arts," Hubert replied,
following Prescott across the hall and into another classroom. "We combine
that class with Basic Prestidigitation. Yes, right in here."
Zane stood in the center of the classroom with a wand in his hand. A
few dozen other students sat along the wall, watching in amazement as the
bust of Godric Gryffindor floated and bobbed around the room, apparently
at the behest of Zane's waving wand. There was a gasp and sigh of
amazement from Prescott's crew. The cameraman squatted slowly, zooming
in on the action.
"Aha!" Prescott said excitedly. "Real magic! Being performed by
children!"
"Just as promised," Hubert said proudly. "Mr. Walker here is among
the best in his class. Mr. Walker, what year are you, by the way?"
"First year, sir," Zane said, grinning happily.
"Excellent form, my boy," Hubert replied. "Try a loop, why don't
you?"
The students applauded politely as the bust raised and spun slowly in

the air. Then, suddenly, it dropped, falling onto a mattress which had been
placed in the center of the floor.
"Oh, too bad, Mr. Walker. So close," Hubert chided.
"It wasn't my fault!" Zane yelled. "It was my backstage! Ted, you dolt,
you yanked when you were supposed to swoop! How many times do I have
to explain that!"
"Hey!" Ted objected, bursting noisily out of a closet at the rear of the
room. He held a handful of wires in his hand, all of which snaked up to a
series of pulleys attached to the ceiling of the closet. "You want to try
coming back here and working these controls in the dark? Huh? Besides,
Noah is the one to blame. He was slow with the cross pulley."
A voice from the depths of the closet yelled angrily, "What? That's it! I
want to be on stage next time. I've had it with this 'assistant' role. I want to
wear the hat!"
"Nobody's wearing the hat, Noah," Zane said, rolling his eyes.
"Well, somebody needs to wear the hat!" Noah cried, his face
appearing around the doorway of the closet. "How does anybody know
who's the magician and who's the assistant?"
"Boys, boys," Hubert placated, raising his hands. "We only have one
hat per classroom, and Miss Morganstern is using it to practice the rabbit
trick. Mr. Prescott, Mr. Finney, would you like to see the rabbit trick?"
"Why, yes," Finney said brightly.
"No!" Prescott yelled.
Tabitha Corsica had pushed herself to the front of the students
crowding the doorway. Her face was red with anger. "Mr. Prescott," she
began, "you--"

Hubert turned slowly to face Tabitha. "This is hardly the time for
autographs, Miss Corsica."
"I'm not here to get his autograph, Chancellor…," Tabitha spat, raising
her arm to point at Hubert. There was a small notebook and a pen clutched
in her hand. She stopped in mid-sentence, staring at the two items. The
cover of the notebook was pink and had the word 'autographs' printed on it
in white script.
"There will be plenty of time later for such things, Miss Corsica. But
I'm sure Mr. Prescott is flattered by your, er, interest."
"Chancellor Hubert?" Petra interjected, peering into a black top hat
which was sitting atop a ridiculously glittery table. "I think something
might be wrong with Mr. Wiffles. Do rabbits usually lie on their backs like
that?"
"Not now, Miss Morganstern," Hubert said, flapping his hand
dismissively. "Mr. Prescott, I believe you wanted to see our sawing-in-half
room?"
But Prescott was gone, stalking past the suddenly silent Tabitha
Corsica and heading down the corridor behind her. The crew scrambled to
chase him as he poked his head into each room. At the end of the hall, he
gave a muffled shout of triumph and waved for his crew to join him in the
furthest classroom.
"Here!" Prescott yelled, gesturing wildly with his right arm. The crowd
poured into the room, followed by the watching students, who were
beginning to grin. "Right before your eyes! A ghost professor! Make sure
you get plenty of footage of this, Vince! Proof of the afterlife!"
There was no gasp of surprise this time. Vince moved in close,
focusing carefully with one hand.
"Ah, yes. Professor Binns," Hubert said happily. "Say hello to the nice
folks."

Professor Binns blinked owlishly and passed his gaze over the crowd.
"Greetings," he said in his thin, distant voice.
"It's just a projection on smoke," Vince, the cameraman, announced.
"Well," Hubert said, a bit defensively, "he's not meant to be seen quite
so close to like that. The students are usually well back from him. Creates a
nice sense of mystery and the supernatural, really."
Ralph was among the students seated in the classroom. He addressed
the cameraman with a note of annoyance. "You're ruining the effect, you
know. You don't have to go and spoil it for everybody."
"Greetings," Binns said again, passing his gaze over the crowd.
"Impossible!" Prescott shouted angrily, striding toward the front of the
room. "It's a ghost! I know it is!"
"It's a projection, Martin," Vince said, lowering the camera. "I've seen
these before. It's not even a very good one. You can hear the projector
running. It's right there, under the desk. And see here? Dry ice machine.
Makes the smoke."
Finney cleared his throat near the door. "This is getting rather
embarrassing, Mr. Prescott."
"Greetings," said Professor Binns.
Prescott turned wildly. He was obviously coming rather unraveled.
"No!" he shouted. "This is all a setup! It's his fault! He's trying to trick all of
you!" He pointed at Hubert.
"Well, that is what we do here," Hubert said, smiling politely. "We're in
the business of tricks. Although we prefer the term 'illusion', if you don't
mind."

"It's maaaaa-gic," Delacroix suddenly said, a bit inanely. She gave a
ghastly grin.
"I see what you're all trying to do here," Prescott said, still pointing at
Hubert, and then McGonagall and even Sacarhina and Recreant, who shook
their heads vigorously. "You're trying to make me look like a madman!
Well, my public knows me better than that, and so do my associates. You
can't hide everything! What about the moving staircases? Or the giants?
Hmm? Or…" Prescott stopped, his finger still in midpoint. His eyes went
unfocussed for a moment, and then he grinned maliciously. "I know just the
thing. Just the thing indeed. Vince, Eddie, the rest of you, come with me."
Hubert followed as the crew clanked and jostled through the crowd of
students. "Where are you going, Mr. Prescott? I'm your guide, if you recall.
I'll show you whatever you wish."
"Yes?" Prescott said, spinning back toward Hubert. The curious
students had parted for him and his crew, so that Prescott glared back
between them, glancing from side to side. "Will you show me…," he
paused dramatically and tilted his head up, "the Garage?"
"The…," Hubert began. He blinked, and then looked aside at Professor
McGonagall. James suddenly felt Harry's hand tighten on his shoulder.
Something was wrong. "The… Garage?" Hubert repeated, as if he was
unfamiliar with the word.
Prescott's grin grew predatory. "Aha! Weren't prepared for that, were
you? Yes, I had myself a good long look around the grounds while you were
all busy this morning. Peeked here and there and got quite an eyeful! There
is a garage," he said, turning to face the camera, "that penetrates the very
fabric of space and time, creating a magical portal between this place and
another place thousands of kilometers away! America, if I may be so bold
as to guess! I have seen it myself. I have been inside the structure, and
smelled the air of that far-off place. I have seen the sunrise of that land,
while the sun here was high above the horizon. It was no trick, no illusion.
These people would have us believe that they are mere tricksters, while I

maintain, as I have witnessed with my own eyes, that they are dabblers in a
form of magic that is purely and simply supernatural. Now I will prove it!"
With a flourish, Prescott turned and marched away, heading back to the
Entrance Hall. Harry fell in line next to Hubert, but couldn't get his
attention.
"Mr. Prescott!" Hubert yelled over the sound of the now agitated
crowd. "I really must insist that you allow me… Mr. Prescott! This is highly
irregular!"
Prescott led his crew out of the main entrance and across the courtyard.
The crowd of students had grown considerably, and the noise of their
passage had become quite loud. Everyone had seen the exterior of the Alma
Aleron's Garage, but very few had been inside or seen what it housed. The
babble of worry and curiosity was a dull roar.
"This could be bad, James," Harry said, keeping his voice below the
noise of the crowd.
"What can we do?"
Harry merely shook his head, watching Prescott turn the corner,
leading the group toward the canvas structure overlooking the lake. He
turned, framing himself before its canvas walls. His crew arranged
themselves in position, lowering the boom microphone over him and
adjusting huge white umbrellas to reflect the sunlight on his shadowed side.
Prescott turned slightly, showing his best side to the camera as Vince
squatted slowly, focusing. It was, James had to admit, a very dramatic
moment.
"Ladies and gentlemen," Prescott began, raising his natural orator's
voice, "my crew and I, and all of you, have been the victims of an elaborate
hoax. This is no simple school of sleight of hand and card tricks. No, I have
witnessed within these walls true magic of the most astounding and bloodchilling variety. I have seen ghosts and watched actual levitations. I have
observed doors appearing magically in otherwise solid stone walls. I have
seen beasts and giants that boggle the mind. Today, we have been played for

fools, deceived by a pack of wizards and witches--yes, actual magical
people--who believe they can fool us with parlor tricks. But now I will
reveal the truth of this place. Behind this canvas is a form of uncanny magic
that will shock and astound you. When this truth is revealed, Mr. Rudolph
Finney, detective for the British Special Police, will be inclined to launch a
full-scale, official investigation into this establishment, with the help of
police agencies from all across Europe. After today, ladies and gentlemen,
our lives will never be the same again. After today, we will be living in a
world where we know, without a doubt, that witches and wizards are real,
and that they walk among us."
Prescott paused, letting his words echo over the stunned crowd. Then
he turned toward the area where McGonagall, Hubert, Sacarhina, and
Recreant were gathered. Finney stood next to the Headmistress, frowning
slightly, his eyes wide. "Mr. Hubert," Prescott called out, "will you open
these doors for us? This is your last chance to do the right thing."
Hubert's expression was grave. He stared very directly at Prescott. "I
have to advise you against this course of action, Mr. Prescott."
"You open it or I will."
"You'll ruin everything, sir," Hubert said. Next to him, Delacroix was
grinning even more manically.
"I'll ruin nothing but your secret, Mr. Hubert. The world needs to know
what is behind those canvas doors."
Hubert seemed frozen in place. It looked as if he wasn't going to do it.
And then he moved forward, lowering his head. There was a long,
collective gasp from the crowd. Prescott stepped aside, glancing
triumphantly at the camera as he did so. Hubert approached the tent and
stood in front of it. He sighed deeply, and then reached up, grasping the
knotted strips of canvas that held the tent's wide flaps closed. He turned his
head to look at Prescott. After a terrible pause, he pulled. The knot came
undone and the flaps dropped open, unfurling like flags, slapping the poles

at either side of the broad tent opening. The crowd gasped, and then there
was a long, puzzled silence.
James peered in. He couldn't immediately make out what it was. The
inside of the tent was rather dark, but he could see that the flying vehicles
were gone. Most of the tent's interior was obscured by a large, oblong
shape. A few people near the front of the crowd began to giggle, and then a
wave of laughter washed over the crowd.
"Well, you've done it," Hubert said, still staring at Prescott. "You've
ruined the secret. And this was meant to be our big finish. I have to say, sir,
you are no fun at all." Hubert finally stepped back, getting out of the way of
the tent so that the camera crew could see directly inside. Tiny, colored
Christmas lights flashed in sequence around the huge papier-mâché flying
saucer. Black letters were painted on the side, clearly visible in the flashing
lights.
"And I hate to say it, Mr. Lupin," Hubert said, turning to Ted, "but
you misspelled 'rocket'. How dreadfully embarrassing."

20. Tale of the Traitor
"But I saw them!" Prescott said insistently, his voice growing rather
hoarse as he followed Vince between the Landrovers. "Giants! One of them
was as tall as the trees! They made footprints the size of… the size of…!"
He gestured with his arms desperately. Ignoring him, Vince packed his
camera into a foamlined suitcase.
"You've made quite a fiasco for yourself, Mr. Prescott," Detective
Finney said, polishing his glasses on his tie. "Don't make it any worse."
Prescott turned to the older man, his eyes wild. "You've got to
investigate this establishment, Detective! It's not right! They've tricked you
all!"
"If I spearhead any investigations, Mr. Prescott," Finney said mildly,

"they'll be investigations of you and your methods. Did you have
permission to trespass on these grounds in the first place?"
"What, are you mad?" Prescott sputtered. He stopped and collected
himself. "Of course. As I've already told you, I was tipped off about what
was happening here. Someone on the inside led me here."
"And you checked the background of this person?"
"Well," Prescott said, "the chocolate frog was pretty convincing. I didn't
really…"
"Excuse me. Did you just say 'the chocolate frog'?" Finney asked, his
eyes narrowing.
"I… er, well. The point is, yes, my source was quite certain that
something strange was going on here…"
"That they were, in fact, teaching magic?"
"Yes. Er, no! Not tricks! Real magic! With monsters and giants and…
and… vanishing doorways and flying cars!"
"And the chocolate frog confirmed this, did he?"
Prescott opened his mouth to answer, and then stopped. He
straightened to his full height, angry and indignant. "You're making fun of
me."
"You make it hard not to, sir. Would you be willing to let me speak to
this source of yours?"
Prescott brightened. "Yes! In fact, I would! I arranged with Miss
Sacarhina for him to come along. He's right over…" He glanced around, his
brow furrowing.

"You arranged with Miss Sacarhina?" Finney asked, glancing up
toward the top of the courtyard steps. Much of the school faculty, as well as
a number of students, were watching with benign interest as the crew
industriously packed their gear. Neither Miss Sacarhina nor Mr. Recreant
was in sight. "She knows this source of yours, does she?"
"She knows him, all right," Prescott said, still scanning the crowd.
"Where is he?"
"He came with the crew?" Finney asked, glancing around. "I don't
remember meeting him."
"He was there. Quiet, squirrelly fellow. Had a twitch in his right
eyebrow."
"Ah, him," Finney nodded. "I thought he was a little odd. I'd very
much like to have a word with him."
"So would I," Prescott agreed darkly.
On the top of the steps, Mr. Hubert turned toward Headmistress
McGonagall, Neville, and Harry Potter. "I think we can trust our friends to
manage their departure from here. Madam Headmistress, I believe we have
a few loose ends to attend to?"
McGonagall nodded, then turned and led the group inside. Harry
smiled down at James. "Come along, James. Ralph and Zane, you too."
"Are you sure?" Ralph asked, glancing up at the Headmistress as she
strode into the hall.
"'Mr. Hubert' specifically asked for you three to accompany us," Harry
replied.
"Nice to have friends in high places, isn't it?" Zane said happily.

"Well," the Headmistress said as they entered the empty silence of the
Great Hall, "that went as well as could be expected, even if Mr. Ambrosius
was a little heavy-handed with his Amorous Charm. Mr. Finney has insisted
that I join him for dinner next time I find myself in London."
"An offer I believe you should take him up on, Madam," Merlin
replied, taking off the gigantic hornrimmed glasses and shaking his hair out
of the 'Mr. Hubert' ponytail. "I enchanted him with the slightest possible
charm. How could I have known that Detective Finney would have a
natural predilection for tall, strong, handsome women?"
"How indeed," McGonagall answered. "I believe you are grinning,
sir."
James spoke up. "But how'd you know about the Garage, Merlin? I
thought for sure we were sunk!"
Merlin glanced back over his shoulder. "I didn't know about the
Garage, James Potter. It was beyond the knowledge of the trees, unlike the
Anglia vehicle and Madame Delacroix. Improvisation, however, has always
been one of my stronger talents."
"But how'd you get the Wocket in there?" Ralph asked. "That was
totally brilliant!"
"The trees knew about that, therefore, I did as well," Merlin replied. "It
was simply a matter of encouraging an exchange of environments."
Zane grinned. "So the Alma Aleron's cars are out in that old barn in the
field?"
"It'll do them some good, I expect," Merlin nodded.
The group walked purposefully through the Great Hall and climbed the
stairs onto the dais. McGonagall opened a door in the rear wall and led the
others through, into a large antechamber with a stone floor and a dark

fireplace. Sacarhina and Recreant were there, sitting on either side of a third
person James didn't recognize.
"This is an outrage, Headmistress," Recreant said, leaping to his feet.
"First, you bring in this… person to usurp our authority, and then you have
the gall to perform the Langlock jinx on us! The Minister will--"
"Do shut up, Trenton," Sacarhina said, rolling her eyes. Recreant
blinked, wounded, but clamped his mouth shut. He looked back and forth
from Sacarhina to the Headmistress.
"Wise advice, if ever I heard it," Harry agreed, stepping forward. "And
I suspect that the Minister will, in fact, hear about this."
"We've done nothing wrong, Mr. Potter, as you know," Sacarhina said,
glancing idly at her fingernails. "Mr. Ambrosius' appearance has secured the
secrecy of the magical world. All is well."
Harry nodded. "I am glad you feel that way, Brenda, although I find it
interesting that you already seem to know 'Mr. Hubert's' real name. No
doubt there will be no link proven to connect him, you, and the unfortunate
Madame Delacroix. What are we to make of your friend, here, however?"
All attention turned to the man seated in the chair between Sacarhina
and Recreant. He was small, pudgy, with thinning black hair and a twitch in
his right eyebrow. He shrunk from the gaze of everyone in the room.
Ralph, who'd been the last to enter, pushed his way between Merlin
and Professor Longbottom, his brow furrowed in bewilderment. "Dad?" he
said, frowning. "What are you doing here?"
The man grimaced miserably and covered his face with his hands.
Merlin looked down at Ralph, his large, stony face somber. He placed a
hand on the boy's shoulder. "This man says his name is Dennis Deedle. I
was afraid you'd recognize him."
"What is he doing here?" Neville asked.

"I think his role in this debacle is fairly evident," the Headmistress
replied, sighing. "He is the man responsible for leading Mr. Prescott into
our midst."
"What?" Ralph said, rounding on McGonagall. "Why would you say
that? That's terrible!"
"He came with Mr. Prescott's crew," Harry said quietly. "He was trying
to remain unobtrusive. Perhaps he was worried that you'd recognize him,
Ralph. Later, when it was all over, it wouldn't have mattered, of course. But
then again, things didn't happen as he expected."
"This is ridiculous," Ralph insisted. "Dad's a Muggle! He signed the
Muggles' non-disclosure contract, didn't he? He wouldn't do this, even if he
could! I don't know what he's doing here, but it isn't what you all think!"
Merlin still had his hand on Ralph's shoulder. He patted him slowly.
"Perhaps you should ask him yourself, then, Mr. Deedle."
Ralph glanced up at the enormous wizard, his face pinched with anger
and trepidation. He looked around the rest of the room, from face to face,
ending with his father. "All right, then. Dad, why are you here?"
Dennis Deedle still had his hands on his face. For several seconds, he
didn't move. Finally, he took a huge breath and sat back, dropping his
hands. He looked at Ralph for a long moment, and then glanced around at
everyone assembled.
"All right. Yes," he said, having composed himself, "I told Prescott. I
sent him the Chocolate Frog and the GameDeck. I'd used it to communicate
with somebody on the school grounds, somebody who went by the name
Austramaddux. Once I'd done that, I knew that Prescott could locate the
school with his GPS."
Ralph's face was frozen with disbelief and misery. "But why, Dad?

Why would you do such a thing?"
"Oh, Ralph. I'm sorry. I know this looks bad to you," Dennis said. "But
it's all very… very complicated. Prescott's show, Inside View, they offer
money for proof of the supernatural. Well, we haven't been doing all that
well, son. I've been looking for work ever since I got laid off, but it's been
hard. We needed the money. I thought the Chocolate Frog would be enough.
I really did! But Prescott wanted more. I knew I'd have to show him
something really amazing, so…" He faltered, glancing nervously around the
room again.
"But you never got the money," Merlin said in his low, rumbling voice.
"And that wasn't the real point, was it?"
Dennis' eyebrows worked furiously as he gazed up at Merlin,
apparently struggling with what to say. Next to him, Sacarhina cleared her
throat meaningfully. Dennis glanced at her, taking his eyes from Merlin.
"The money," he said uncertainly, "Prescott said we'd get it when the
program aired. He promised."
"But there will be no program now," Merlin said quietly.
"You thought it'd be worth selling out the whole magical world just to
help us get by for awhile, Dad?" Ralph said, his voice not accusing, but
truly questioning. It broke James' heart to hear the disappointment in the
boy's voice.
"No, son!" Dennis answered, but then looked away. "I didn't think it'd
threaten the whole magical world. I mean, it's just a stupid television show.
Besides…" He stopped, chewing on his words, wrestling with himself.
"Besides what?" Merlin asked calmly.
Dennis looked back at Merlin, his face tense, his right eyebrow
twitching. "Besides, what did the magical world ever do for me?" he spat,
then covered his face with his hands again. He took a deep, shuddering
breath. "Left me all alone, that's what. Shunned and abandoned, like some

kind of… some kind of worthless mutant! Stripped of my name and my
family, abandoned by my own parents because I wasn't like them! I was
forbidden to ever contact them or speak of them again. They said I'd be
adopted into the Muggle world, where I belonged. They said I'd be happier
there. Well, I guess I showed them, didn't I? They didn't want me to ruin
their reputation in the magical world. Well, why should I care about the
secrecy of the magical world at all?"
Ralph's face was a mask of unhappy consternation. "What are you
talking about, Dad? You're not a wizard. Grandma and Grandpa died before
I was born. You were as surprised as me when we got the letter from
Hogwarts."
Dennis tried to smile at his son. "I'd almost forgotten about my own
past, Ralph. It had been so long, and I'd tried so hard to bury it. I'm a Squib,
son. Your grandparents and your uncle were witches and wizards, but I
wasn't born with their powers. They raised me for as long as they could, but
they hated my nature. When I came of age and they could see for sure that I
didn't have any magical skills, they couldn't bear it. They hid me from the
rest of the magical world. I was their ugly little secret. But they couldn't
hide me forever. Finally, when I was twelve, they sent me away. I went to a
Muggle orphanage, under the pretense that my parents had died in an
accident. They made me vow never to mention them and never to try and
seek them. My mother was… she was sad. She cried and hid her face from
me. But my father was hard. She couldn't budge him. He hired a Muggle
driver to take us to the orphanage. Mother stayed in the car when my father
took me inside. She tried to embrace me, to say goodbye, but Father
wouldn't let her. He said it would be better for both of us. He performed
memory modifications on the workers at the orphanage. He made them
believe I had been delivered by the state after the deaths of my parents. I
was given a bed and a set of clothes, and then my father left. I never saw
my parents again."
Dennis Deedle's eyes didn't leave his son's face when Merlin spoke.
"You were very hard done by, Mr. Deedle. I assume Deedle is not your
given name, is it?"

"No. My father invented that name for me," Dennis said blandly. "I
hate it."
"What is your given name, sir?"
"Dolohov," Ralph's father answered, his voice growing distant, almost
dead. "My name is Denniston Gilles Dolohov. Son of Maximillion and
Whilhelmina Dolohov. Younger step-brother of Antonin."
There was a moment of very cold silence, and then McGonagall spoke.
"Mr. Dolohov, do you realize that what you've done could send you to
Azkaban?"
Dennis blinked, as if coming out of a trance. "What? No, no, of course
not. I was promised that nothing I did was against the law."
Sacarhina coughed lightly. "Perhaps, Mr. Deedle, you'd prefer to
refrain from answering any more questions until your legal representation
can be present."
"Why?" Dennis said, glancing at her in alarm. "Am I in trouble? You
said--"
"It would be for your best interests, sir," Sacarhina interrupted.
"You said I was doing the world a favor!" Dennis exclaimed, getting to
his feet. He glanced at Harry. "She promised me that I'd be taken care of
even if Prescott and his people didn't come through with the money! She
said this was more important than money, anyway! When I came to them--"
"Sit down, Mr. Deedle!" Sacarhina said, her voice icy.
"Don't call me that! I hate that name!" Dennis backed away from her,
glancing back at Harry. "They told me it was all right to talk to Prescott! I
told them what I was thinking of doing. I knew I had to check with the
Ministry. They said the contract I'd signed wasn't binding because I wasn't a

Muggle. And I left the wizarding world before I was old enough to sign the
Wizarding Vow of Secrecy, too, so I wasn't breaking any laws. She
promised me it was all right! She said it was for everybody's good and that
I'd be a hero!"
"Miss Sacarhina," Harry said, producing his wand, but not quite
brandishing it, "what do you have to say in response to this man's
accusations?"
"I have nothing to say whatsoever," she replied easily. "He is clearly
deranged. No one would believe the word of such a person."
"Mr. Recreant?" Harry said, turning to the stunned man. "Do you
concur with Miss Sacarhina's assessment?"
Recreant's eyes moved like flies, flicking back and forth between
Sacarhina and Harry. "I'd…," he began, and then lowered both his eyes and
his voice. "I'd like the chance to discuss this outside of Miss Sacarhina's
hearing."
"Mr. Recreant, as your superior, I forbid--"
"You'll forbid nothing, Madam," Neville said sternly, slipping his own
wand from his robes.
"In the name of ambassadorial security, I have to insist…," Sacarhina
began, but stopped as Harry pointed his wand at her.
"In the name of the Ministry of Magic and the Auror Department," he
said, "I place you, Miss Brenda Sacarhina, under arrest for attempted
violation of section two of the International Code of Wizarding Secrecy and
for the theft of Ministry of Magic property."
Sacarhina tried to smile, but it was a relatively poor attempt. "You can't
prove anything, Mr. Potter. This is a foolish and dangerous game you are
playing. I will only warn you once to stand down."

"You should think twice before conspiring with people who despise
you, Miss Sacarhina," Merlin said, smiling ruefully. "I had a charming and
illuminating conversation with Madame Delacroix when I discovered her in
the forest. She has much to say about you, I'm afraid, and very little of it is
what I'd be prepared to call flattering."
Neville was leading Mr. Recreant out of the room, with the
Headmistress following. Harry gestured with his wand. "Come, Miss
Sacarhina. Titus Hardcastle awaits to escort you back to the Ministry, and
patience is not one of his stronger suits."
Sacarhina's face went blank as she realized she had no choice but to
follow along. No doubt she had a very good defense ready, James thought
as she stalked out of the room in front of his dad. People like her always
had lots of ways to cover their tracks. Still, it didn't look good for Brenda
Sacarhina. As the door leading to the Great Hall swung open, James saw
Titus Hardcastle grinning mirthlessly, his wand pointing carefully at the
floor.
James found himself left only with Merlin, Zane, Ralph, and Dennis
Dolohov
Dennis looked at his son, and then touched him on the shoulder. "I'm
sorry, Ralph. I really am. I was… confused."
"You should've told me, Dad," Ralph said, dropping his eyes.
Dennis nodded. After a moment, he raised his eyes to Merlin. "Am I
going to go to wizarding prison?" he asked, trying to firm his voice. "I'll…
I'll go along quietly, I guess."
"Somehow, I suspect not, Mr. Dolohov," Merlin said, turning to lead
the group out of the chamber. He opened the door leading to the Great Hall.
"But your actions have resulted in quite a conundrum. It appears that this
school's security, strong as it may once have been, is not quite prepared to

meet the challenges of modern Muggle technology. Perhaps you'd have
some thoughts on how to improve it?"
Dennis frowned. "What are you suggesting? You want my help?"
Merlin shrugged. "I am simply acknowledging a rather curious
coincidence. You are in need of employment and we are in need of a revised
security programme. As a wizard who also happens to be an expert in
Muggle technology, you seem rather uniquely qualified to serve in that
regard."
Dennis grinned in relief. "I'll think about that, sir."
"I am in no position to make any offers on behalf of this school, of
course," Merlin said, crossing the Great Hall with his long, commanding
stride. "But I know the Headmistress. I'll see what I can do."
"So," Zane said, following Ralph and James into the Entrance Hall,
"turns out you were of solid magical stock after all, Ralph, even if they
were a bunch of cruel, heartless purebloods. Not that it matters, really, but it
does sort of explain why you were made a Slytherin."
"Maybe," Ralph said quietly. "This is all too much for me to take in
one day. Either way, none of that magic was mine. It was the staff."
Merlin stopped near the stairs, and then turned slowly. He gazed at
Ralph speculatively. "You were the keeper of my staff?"
"Yeah," Ralph answered dejectedly. "I kept it from killing anyone, I
guess. But barely."
"Don't listen to him," Zane said. "He was spectacular with it. Saved
James' life once with it. Grew a peach tree out of a banana, too! So he once
burned a bald stripe onto Victoire's head in D.A.D.A. All of us have thought
about doing that to her from time to time just to shut her up."

Merlin approached Ralph. James was certain the wizard hadn't been
carrying his staff a moment before, but as he lowered himself to one knee in
front of Ralph, he now held it in his right hand. The runes along its length
were dark, but James remembered how they'd pulsed with green light the
night before.
"Mr. Deedle--or shall I call you Mr. Dolohov?" Merlin said.
"I'm kind of attached to the Deedle," Ralph answered, glancing up at
his father. "I don't know if I'm ready to be a Dolohov yet. Sorry, Dad."
Dennis gave a small understanding smile.
"Mr. Deedle, then," Merlin said. "Not just any wizard could have born
the responsibility of the staff. You have heard it said that the wand chooses
the wizard, and this is true. Madame Delacroix believed you were merely a
vessel to bring the staff to her, but she was mistaken. The staff chose you. A
lesser wizard would have been unable even to hold the staff, much less use
it. But you, without knowing it, brought the staff under your own power.
You had no idea of the strength of it, and yet you managed it. It obeyed you,
and that is the mark of a wizard of very, very great potential. Part of this
staff now belongs to you, Mr. Deedle. I have felt it. I knew that a portion of
it was no longer my own, but I knew not whose it was. Now I know."
Merlin lowered his staff so that it lay across his knee. He closed his
eyes and felt along the length of the staff, his hand barely touching the
wood. Faint green light moved within the runes, flickering. Merlin wrapped
his hand around the lower, tapered end of his staff, then, with barely a twist,
broke off the last foot of its length. He opened his eyes again and held the
length of wood out to Ralph.
"You are, I believe, in need of a wand, Mr. Deedle."
Ralph took the length of wood from Merlin. As he did, the wood
became his wand again, still ridiculously fat and chunky, with the lime
green painted tip. Ralph grinned, turning it over in his hands.
"I wouldn't expect it to be quite as powerful as it once was, of course,"

Merlin said, turning his staff upright and using it to stand again. The staff
was noticeably shorter now. "But I suspect you will still be able to do
remarkable things with it."
"Thanks," Ralph said seriously.
"Don't thank me," Merlin said, raising an eyebrow. "It's yours, Mr.
Deedle. You made it so."
"So the wizard gives the cowardly lion his courage," Zane said,
grinning. "When does James here get some brains?"
Merlin cinched his eyebrow a bit higher, looking from Zane to James.
"Don't pay him any attention," James said, laughing and leading the
group to the stairs. "It's a Muggle thing. We wouldn't understand."
"Come on!" Ralph called, running up the steps. "I want to show Ted
and the rest of the Gremlins I've got my wand back! Tabitha Corsica can
keep her stupid broom."
The three boys scrambled up the moving staircases, followed more
sedately by Merlin and the newly reborn Dennis Dolohov.
"Will he be okay with that thing?" Dennis asked Merlin, frowning a
little.
Merlin merely smiled and clacked his staff on the steps as he climbed.
Unnoticed, a jet of lime green sparks shot from the tip, swirling and
glowing like fireflies in their wake.

21.The Gift of the Green Box
The last weeks of the school year spun out before James like a blur,
remarkably free of deathly peril and adventure, but packed nonetheless with
the lesser stresses of schoolwork and final essays and wand practicals, all of
which were relatively welcome in the wake of the Hall of Elders' Crossing.
To no one's great surprise, Hufflepuff was awarded the House Cup, being
the only house to avoid major point deductions for involvement in the
various Merlin conspiracy skullduggeries. The broomstick caper alone had
cost Ravenclaw and Gryffindor fifty points each.
On the morning of the last day of school, James was stuffing his
books and extra school robes into his trunk when Noah pounded up the
stairs calling for him.
"Ron Weasley's in the fireplace. He wants to talk to you."
James grinned. "Excellent! Tell him I'll be right there!"

"James, look at you!" Uncle Ron cried when James tromped down the
stairs a minute later, still tying his tie. "All respectable and everything.
Have a good year, did you?"
James nodded. "I guess I did. Looks like I'll pass, after all. Spent all of
Monday night getting ready for Franklyn's D.A.D.A. practical, then had the
most horrible sensation that I'd forgotten everything five minutes before the
test."
"I wasn't exactly talking about your schoolwork, you dunce," said the
face in the embers, grinning crookedly. "Your dad told me all about the
Merlin conspiracy you uncovered. That's brilliant stuff, and no mistake."
"Yeah, well…," James said sheepishly, "it was all pretty exciting there
for a while, but it's weird. Five weeks of schoolwork and suddenly all of
that seems like it happened to someone else."
That's the way of it," Ron nodded. "The dull parts of life spread out in
your memory and crowd out the exciting parts until they just seem like little
flashes. It's the way your brain copes with it all, I guess. Speaking of which,
how's Professor Jackson doing?"
James rolled his eyes. "Nothing can keep old Stonewall down for long.
He wasn't really injured in his duel with Delacroix, even though his backup
wand wasn't as powerful as the one she broke. Apparently, he chased her
through the woods for hours and finally cornered her in a clearing. He says
he'd have gotten her, except that she cheated, calling on the enemy naiads
and dryads to fight with her. The trees attacked him from behind, knocking
him out. That's how he got the big bruise on his forehead. Still, he was back
in class the day after Prescott left, and he's been raining fire on Zane and me
ever since."
Ron raised an eyebrow. "Can't really blame him, I guess."
"We gave him back his briefcase and apologized and everything. I
mean, I know we ruined his lifelong quest to protect the relic robe and

prevent the return of the most dangerous wizard of all time and all, but
come on. Merlin turned out to be all right. Delacroix got sent back to the
States to stand trial in the American wizarding courts. Everything worked
out in the end, didn't it?"
"All I can say is if I was him, I'd wish you spiders in your drawers for
the rest of your life," Ron mused. "But that's just me. My mind tends to go
that way."
"Honestly, Uncle Ron. I want to make it right. I liked Professor
Jackson at first."
"At the risk of sounding like a responsible adult, James, actions have
consequences. Apologizing is great, but 'sorry' isn't a magic word. You not
only ruined Jackson's plans, you took a stab at his pride. You succeeded in
foiling him. In his mind, you made a fool out of him. That's a hard thing for
a bloke like him to get over. Frankly, you can't blame him, can you?"
"I guess not," James agreed sulkily. "At least he didn't fail us in
Technomancy. It was a close thing, though."
"Good man. Still, don't get too wrapped up in classwork, you. You've
got a reputation to live up to."
"Or down to," Noah's voice quipped from nearby.
"I heard that, Metzker," Ron said sternly. "It's a proud Potter tradition,
squeaking by in school. Started with James Potter the first. Besides, you're
one to talk, Mr. Gremlin."
"Got high marks this year, all across the board," Noah said primly.
Ron grinned again. "Thanks to your friend Petra, no doubt. She's to
you Gremlins what Hermione was for Harry and me. Hold on. She wants to
say hello, James."
The face in the coals sank out of sight. A moment later, Hermione's

pleasant smile and perpetually bushy hair formed. "James, you look very
handsome," she said proudly. "Don't you listen to your uncle. He studied
plenty and was just as worried about marks as anyone."
"That's not true!" a muffled voice called from the depths of the
fireplace. Hermione grimaced.
"Well, almost anyone," she conceded. "Anyway, your mum and dad
will be very proud of you, and so are your uncle and me. Oh, I just can't
believe how fast the time goes. It seems like only yesterday that we were all
still there," she sighed, looking around the common room. "It looks almost
exactly the same. We'll have to make a point of visiting next year. It'll be
nice to see the old place again." Even in the embers, Aunt Hermione's eyes
glistened a little. She blinked, and then returned her gaze to James.
"Anyway, James. Ron's been talking to your father, you know, and the two
of them wanted to ask you something. I thought it'd be best if someone
besides either of them brought it up, though, because, frankly, they're both
so silly about it that they'd influence your response."
"What is it?" James asked, squatting down in front of the fireplace.
"Don't kneel," Hermione chided automatically. "You'll scuff up your
pants with ash. It's about the Headmistress. She's planning to retire, you
know."
James didn't know. "She is? But… what would she do with herself?"
Hermione gave James a look that said she'd just remembered how old
he was. "Minerva McGonagall has quite a life outside the walls of
Hogwarts, James, as difficult as that may be for you believe. She's even, I
understand, taken Mr. Finney up on his offer of dinner in London."
"She did?" James hooted.
"She did?" Noah chimed almost simultaneously from the couch,
looking up from a book.

Hermione rolled her eyes. "It was a purely professional meeting, I can
assure you both. She performed a few minor memory modifications upon
Mr. Finney, not really causing him to forget his visit here, but altering it. It's
all a part of Mr. Dolohov's programme to 'clean'--as he calls it--the school's
security record. Still," Hermione added, lowering her voice a bit, "she did
speak rather highly of Mr. Finney. It would be quite nice to think that she
might find a, er, companion for herself. After all…"
"Hermione!" Ron's voice barked from the depths of the fireplace again.
"Anyway," Hermione said, turning businesslike. "Yes, the
Headmistress does plan to retire, possibly as soon as this summer, assuming
a suitable replacement could be found. Most likely, she will stay on to teach
Transfiguration and help the new headmaster, whoever he or she might be.
Some had suggested Neville Longbottom, but the Ministry feels he might
be a bit young for the post, which is just silly, but politics being what they
are…"
"Merlin!" James exclaimed. "You're all thinking of asking him to be
the new headmaster!"
A whoop of happy triumph emanated from the depths of the fireplace.
Hermione scowled.
"You can leave me out of this, thank you very much. This is all your
father's and uncle's idea. But I can see you are as mad about it as they are."
"But how can he be the headmaster?" Noah asked, jumping off the
couch and crouching in front of the fireplace. "Sorry," he added quickly.
"Couldn't help overhearing and all that."
"Really?" Hermione replied a bit archly. "Here, I had assumed you
were suitably entrenched in that Arithmancy textbook. How silly of me.
Please do keep it a secret, though, the both of you. Oh, what am I saying?
Ron, you might as well explain this." She sighed and blew her bangs out of
her face in a gesture James remembered from his earliest memories of Aunt

Hermione. She gave a bemused smile. "James, have a good trip. We'll see
you in a week. Rose and Hugo say hello and to buy them some Cauldron
Cakes on the train. Good day, Noah."
She disappeared from the embers and Uncle Ron's face appeared
again. "Excellent idea, eh?" he announced, looking from Noah to James
enthusiastically.
"But how?" Noah asked again. "I mean, the bloke was the most
potentially dangerous wizard in the history of the planet a few weeks ago,
wasn't he? And now you think the Ministry will put him in charge of a
bunch of kids?"
"Not without lots of oversight," Ron said quickly. He had obviously
thought a lot about it. "That's where McGonagall and Neville come in.
They'll watch him and help out, sort of like a board of directors.
McGonagall has already agreed to it, although we had to push her a bit on
it. She's afraid she'll still basically be doing all the work, but with Merlin
getting the credit. Might happen, too, I guess, but your dad and I don't think
so. Merlin seems the sort of guy born to lead, you know?"
"Yeah," James agreed. "But still, he comes from a time when leading
meant telling people which guillotine had the shortest queue. I can't imagine
that the Ministry will agree to put him in charge of Hogwarts."
"Your Merlin's a surprisingly quick study, James," Ron said seriously.
"He's already been all over the Ministry, meeting people and having big,
long discussions about the way things work in this day and age. He's
warming up to it, I have to say!"
"So why wouldn't they put him somewhere there, then?" Noah asked.
"I mean, most famous wizard in the world and all. Seems like he'd be in line
for Minister of Magic, if nothing else."
Ron grinned a bit maliciously. "I suppose you are both too young to
understand the implications of the phrase 'overqualified and

underexperienced'. Basically, no department wants him. A guy like Merlin
doesn't work well behind a desk, for one thing. And it's hard to imagine that
any department head who hired him would stay the department head for
very long afterwards."
"You mean he'd take over, right?" James confirmed.
"Take over, at the very least. He's a bit of a loose cannon. Sure, he's
probably the most powerful single wizard alive today, but with a thousandyear gap in his work experience. As fast as he picks things up, he's sure to
be a poor fit in the red tape world of the Ministry. Your dad can hardly stand
it, James. Think about what it'll be like for a bloke who's used to being able
to banish his enemies to the netherworld with a glance. The fact of the
matter is that the Ministry is looking for an out-of-the-way place to stick the
old man. Someplace prominent enough to fit a wizard of his stature, but far
enough away not to threaten anyone, metaphorically speaking. Or maybe
even not metaphorically speaking. One never knows."
"And Hogwarts just happens to be in need of a new headmaster," Noah
said, grinning.
"Well?" Ron said, meeting Noah's grin. "It does seem a little too
perfect, doesn't it?"
"Even if the Ministry does agree to it, you think he'll do it?" James
asked.
In the fireplace, Ron seemed to shrug. "Who can tell? Nobody has
asked him yet. But first thing's first." Ron grew serious and studied James.
"You know him best, nephew. You were there when he came out of the past.
You were the one who talked him into coming and helping Hogwarts and
the wizarding world. What do you think? Do you think he'd be a good
headmaster? Do you think we should ask him?"
Noah leaned back against the base of the couch, looking at James,
waiting for his response. James knew he should think about it, but he
already knew his answer. Merlin was a complicated man, and he wasn't

exactly what anyone could call 'good', not in the sense that Albus
Dumbledore or even Minerva McGonagall were good. But James knew one
thing for sure: Merlin wanted to be good. It was hard to tell if it was better
to have a headmaster who was good by nature or one that was good because
he had to try to be so every day, but James was old enough to know that it
was a risk worth taking. Besides, the Gremlin part of James whispered, it
might be fun having a headmaster who'd banish someone like Tabitha
Corsica to the netherworld with a glance.
"Ask him," James said, nodding once, emphatically. "If the Ministry
goes for it, ask him. And I hope he accepts."
"Woo hoo!" Noah hooted, throwing his hands in the air.
"Keep it to yourselves, for now," Ron said sternly. "If word gets out
before your dad and Hermione arrange things at the Ministry, it could spoil
everything. Got it?"
Noah nodded. James smiled agreement.
"Your dad took back the cloak and the map, did he?" Ron asked James,
changing the subject.
"Yeah. And I'm apparently going to be grounded when I get back. Two
weeks off my broom."
Ron clucked his tongue. "Just when you were getting pretty good on it,
I hear. Ah well. You know your dad has to keep up the look of the thing,
punishing you and all, but he's proud of you. Take it from me."
James' smile widened and his cheeks flushed.
"Not that I'd try it again, mind you," Ron said, his grin vanishing.
"Once is a charm. If you pull something like that again, Ginny will
probably decide to home school you in the basement. Take it from me, she's
no one to fiddle with, James."

Later that afternoon, James met Zane and Ralph outside as the Alma
Alerons gathered to disembark. As they watched, the three flying vehicles
were driven out of the Garage, and then the Garage was broken down and
packed inside the trunk of the Dodge Hornet.
"There's something deep and mystical about that, but I can't quite put
my finger on it," Zane said thoughtfully.
"What? The Garage being packed into what it was housing a few
minutes ago?"
"No. The way Professor Franklyn seems to get more and more popular
with the girls the closer it gets to his departure." It was true. Franklyn was
quite popular with the ladies, from the oldest staff matron to the first-year
girls, who giggled when he passed them, touching each lightly on the head.
The only women he seemed to have no effect on were the Headmistress and
Victoire, who claimed to believe he was a pompous old blowhard. Ted had
explained that one of the benefits of being old was being free to flirt with
any girl you wanted, because none of them took you serious enough to get
offended. Zane found this remarkably instructive.
"When I get old, I'm going to flirt like that," he said wistfully.
"He's not even flirting," James said, narrowing his eyes. "He's just
smiling at them and acting all self-effacing, like he always does."
"That just shows what you know about flirting."
Ralph rolled his eyes. "I'm surprised you aren't taking notes."
"He should offer a class," Zane said seriously, watching Franklyn bow
and kiss Petra Morganstern's hand goodbye. Petra grinned and glanced

aside, her cheeks reddening a little. When Franklyn straightened, she leaned
in and gave him a chaste little peck on the cheek.
"Ladies and gentlemen of Hogwarts," he said, turning to address the
crowd, "it has been our distinct pleasure to serve you this year. It has been,
as I knew it would be, a remarkably instructive year for us. We have
strengthened our resolve to work with the European magical community to
maintain fairness and equity worldwide, not only for the magical world, but
for all humanity." He scanned the crowd, beaming, and then took off his
glasses and sighed. "We are, I suspect, at the beginning of challenging
times. The winds of change are blowing. On both sides of the ocean, we
face forces that would shake our culture to its foundations. But we have
made friends, you and us, and united we will stand, regardless of what may
come. I have been around for a very long time, and I can say with some
degree of confidence that change is always in the wind. The challenge of
good men is not to thwart change, but to mold it as it comes, so that it may
benefit rather than destroy. After this year, I am indeed confident that we
may succeed in that endeavor."
There was a round of applause, although it felt to James a little
perfunctory. Not everyone in the crowd agreed with Franklyn, and not all
for the same reasons. Still, it had been a good speech, and James was glad
Franklyn had made it. While the crowd was still cheering, Franklyn climbed
into the Volkswagen Beetle. He waved once from the open door.
Someone tapped James on the shoulder. He turned, and then had to
look up. Professor Jackson was standing behind him. Tall and dressed in
black, Jackson looked more imposing than ever. He looked down his nose
at James, his bushy brows low.
"I thought you might wish to have this," Jackson said. James noticed
that the man was holding a small wooden box. Jackson looked at it in his
hands, and then handed it to James. "It was found in Madame Delacroix's
quarters. I believe it belongs to you more than it does to anyone. Dispose of
it as you see fit."
James held the box, which was surprisingly light. It was a strange

greenish color, covered in deep, carven scrollwork. It reminded him of the
vines on the door of the Grotto Keep. He looked up to ask Professor
Jackson what it was, but the man was already striding across the courtyard
toward the Stutz Dragonfly. He stopped when he reached the vehicle, and
then turned, raising one hand to the assembly, his face as stony as his
nickname. The crowd cheered, a much longer and more sustained ovation
than even Franklyn had received. Surprisingly, Jackson had become a
favorite at Hogwarts, not so much in spite of his curmudgeon-like
demeanor as because of it.
Once Jackson had climbed into the vehicle, the rest of the assembly
boarded quickly. The greycloaked delegates from the American Department
of Magical Administration had arrived from London the day before to join
their fellows for the trip back to the States. They filed into the vehicles,
nodding goodbyes to the assembly. Last were the porters, who packed the
enormous pile of luggage into the apparently bottomless trunks of the
vehicles, and then climbed into the front seats to drive.
The wings unfolded from the vehicles smoothly, delicately, and began
to thrash the air. The Dodge Hornet took off first. With a squeak of springs
and creak of metal, it rose into the air, turning slowly. The Stutz Dragonfly
and the Volkswagen Beetle followed, the low drone of their wings beating
the air and rippling the grass of the courtyard. Then, with sudden grace and
speed, they raced off, rising, their noses tilted toward the ground. In less
than a minute, the noise of their departure was lost in the late spring wind
that blew over the hills.
Ralph, Zane, and James plopped onto a bench near the courtyard
entrance.
"So what's in the box Jackson gave you?" Ralph asked, peering
curiously at it.
"I wouldn't even open it, if I was you," Zane warned. "Remember what
he said about making our lives 'interesting'? He's the kind of guy to wait
right until the moment he leaves to get his revenge on you. That way, he's
gone when the trouble starts." He tapped the side of his head wisely.

James frowned and shook his head slowly. He looked at the box on his
lap. It had a brass latch on the front, holding the lid shut. Without a word,
he flipped the catch and raised the lid. Zane and Ralph leaned in, craning to
see. The inside of the box was lined with purple velvet. There was one
object inside, lying atop a piece of folded parchment.
"I don't get it," Ralph said, sitting back again. "It's a doll."
James removed it and held it up. It was indeed a small figure, roughly
made of burlap and twine, with mismatched buttons for eyes.
Zane peered at it, his face serious. "It's… it's you, James."
Sure enough, the figure did bear a striking resemblance. Black yarn on
the head formed a good representation of James' unruly hair. Even the shape
of the head, the line of the stitched mouth, and the placement of the button
eyes made an eerie portrait.
James shuddered. "It's a voodoo doll," he said. He remembered the
note inside the box. All three boys leaned in to read it as he unfolded it.
Mr. Potter,
You will surely recognize what this object is. There was no
time in this year's Technomancy curriculum to discuss the ancient
art of Representational Harmonics, but I suspect you grasp the
implications. This was found inside Madame Delacroix's
quarters. After some discussion with the Headmistress and the
portraits of your Severus Snape and Albus Dumbledore--whom
you should know have taken rather an interest in you--it was
determined that you might benefit from knowing how Madame
Delacroix used this object against you. The elegance of her
manipulation was quite impressive, really. This figure was placed
next to a much larger figure of your father, Harry Potter. On the
other side of that was a candle. It seems apparent that she kept
that candle lit at all times. The result, of course, Mr. Potter, was

that your figure was always in the shadow of the representation of
your father.
There is always a grain of truth in the manipulations of the
voodoo art.
Delacroix knew that you would legitimately struggle with the
expectations of your
legendary father. The lesson you must learn from this, Mr. Potter,
is that emotions are not bad, but they must be examined. Know
yourself. Feelings always seem valid, but they can confuse. And
they can, as you have seen, be used against you. I repeat, as your
teacher and as your elder, know your feelings. Master them or
they will master you.
Theodore Hirshall Jackson
"Wow!" Ralph breathed. "We didn't call her 'the voodoo queen' for
nothing!"
Zane asked, "What are you going to do with it, James? I mean, if you
destroy it, will you be destroyed, somehow?"
James stared at the small, unattractive caricature of himself. "I don't
think so," he replied thoughtfully. "I don't think Jackson would've given it
to me in that case. I think he just means for me to remember what
happened. And to try to make sure it never happens again."
"So?" Zane repeated. "What are you going to do with it?"
James stood, stuffing the doll into the pocket of his jeans. "I don't
know. I think I'll keep it. For a while, at least."
With that, the three boys meandered into the school, intent on doing as
little as possible with their last day of the school year.

Late that night, unable to sleep from the excitement of the next day's
departure, James got out of bed. He crept down the stairs into the common
room, hoping someone else might still be up for a game of wizard chess or
even Winkles and Augers. By the glow of the banked fire, the room
appeared to be empty. As he was turning away, something caught James'
eye and he looked again. The ghost of Cedric Diggory sat near the fire. His
silvery form was still transparent, but was noticeably more solid than the
last time James had seen him.
"I was trying to think of a name for myself," Cedric said, smiling as
James threw himself onto the couch nearby.
"You've got a name already, haven't you?" James answered.
"Well, not a proper ghostly name. Not like 'Nearly Headless Nick' or
'the Bloody Baron'. I need something with some panache."
James considered it. "How about 'the Chaser of Annoying Muggles'?"
"It's a little long."
"Well, can you do any better?"
"I was thinking--you'd better not laugh," the ghost said, giving James a
stern look. "I was thinking of something like 'the Specter of Silence'."
"Hmm," James replied carefully. "But you aren't silent. In fact, you
sound a lot better now. Your voice doesn't sound like its being blown in
from the Great Beyond anymore."
"Yeah," Cedric agreed, "I've become quite a bit more… here, sort of.
I'm as ghostly as the rest of the school ghosts, now. I was silent for a long
time, though, wasn't I?"
"I guess so. But still, with a name like 'the Specter of Silence'," James
said doubtfully, "it's going to be hard to make that stick if you go around

chatting people up all the time."
"Maybe I could be all broody and quiet a lot of the time," Cedric
mused. "Just do a lot of floating around and looking dour and everything.
And then, when I pass by, people would whisper to each other, 'Hey, there
he goes! The Specter of Silence!'"
James shrugged. "It's worth a shot. I guess you have the summer to
practice the whole brooding silence bit."
"I guess so."
James suddenly sat up. "So do you think you'll be the new Gryffindor
ghost?" he asked. "I mean, with Nearly Headless Nick gone on to wherever
ghosts go, we don't have a House ghost anymore."
Cedric thought for a moment. "I don't think so, really. Sorry. I was a
Hufflepuff, remember?"
James slumped back. "Yeah. I forgot."
A few minutes went by, and then Cedric spoke again. "That was a
pretty great thing you did, going out and calling Merlin back to help us out
when it seemed like he'd left for good."
James lifted his head and looked at the ghost. He frowned a little.
"That? Well, it was just a shot in the dark, really. It was all my fault Merlin
was brought to this time at all. I thought I was doing the world this big
favor, standing in the way of Delacroix's and Jackson's evil plan. Turns out
she was using me all along and Jackson was actually a good guy."
"Well?" Cedric countered. "You learned something, then, didn't you?"
"I don't know," James said automatically. He thought for a moment and
then added, "Yeah, I guess I did."

"There is one way that you and your dad are one and the same, James,"
Cedric said.
James laughed a little humorlessly. "I can't see what it is. All I learned
is that my way of doing things isn't Dad's. If I try to do it his way, I screw
everything up. If I try to do it my way, I might help things scrape by on
sheer luck. Dad's way was the way of the hero. My way is the way of the
manager. My best talent is asking for help."
"No, James," Cedric said, leaning forward to look James directly in
the eye, "your best talent is inspiring people to want to help. You think
that's no big deal? The world needs people like you, because most of the
people out there don't have the courage or the passion or the direction to be
heroes. They want to be, but they need someone to tell them why, and to
show them how. You have that gift, James. Your dad was a hero because he
was the Boy Who Lived. He had a destiny. It wasn't an easy road for him,
but it was an obvious road. There was Harry and there was Voldemort. He
knew where he stood and what he had to do, even if it killed him. You,
though… you are a hero because you choose to be one, every day. And you
have the talent to encourage others to choose that, too."
James stared into the banked coals of the fire. "I'm no hero."
Cedric smiled and sat back again. "You only think that because you
think heroes always win. Trust me on this one, James. A hero isn't defined
by winning. Loads of heroes die in the effort. Most of them never get any
recognition. No, a hero is just somebody who does the right thing when it
would be far, far easier to do nothing."
James turned to look at the ghost, smiling crookedly. "Maybe we
should call you 'the Specter of Cheesiness.'"
"Ha, ha," the ghost replied.
James stood up again. "Thanks, Cedric. That… helps."

Cedric nodded. James headed back for the stairs, but stopped with his
foot on the bottom step. "One thing still bothers me, though, Cedric. Maybe
you know something about it, being a ghost and all."
"Maybe. Ask me."
"The dryad in the forest said that there was an heir of Voldemort. She
said that this person was alive and nearby, right here on the school
grounds."
Cedric nodded slowly. "I was there when you told Snape about it."
"Well, whoever that is, I think that's who took Ralph's GameDeck and
used the name Austramaddux. If that hadn't happened, none of this
would've come about. Whoever it is had to have been working with Miss
Sacarhina from the very beginning."
Cedric looked away, out a nearby window. "You think you know who
it is?"
"Tabitha Corsica," James said flatly. "I thought it might be her after I
talked to Snape and I still think it could be her. So her broom wasn't the
Merlin staff. There's still something scary about it. And about her in
general."
Cedric stood and walked through the chair, apparently without noticing
he was doing so. "I've felt something, James. I'll admit that to you. There is
a sense of He Who Must Not Be Named here still. It lingers within the
halls. It's like a smell, like something rancid and oozing and… purple,
somehow. Maybe I am more sensitive to it than the other ghosts. After all,
he was responsible for my death."
"Yeah," James said quietly. "I hadn't forgotten."
"But James, things are rarely as obvious as we'd like to think they are.
In the real world, at least in our time, if not in Merlin's, evil wears many

masks. It's confusing. You have to be very careful. Sometimes, even good
people can look bad. A lot of us, your father included, made that mistake
when it came to Professor Snape."
"So did I," James admitted. "With Professor Jackson."
Cedric nodded.
"But I would've sworn that Tabitha was involved in the whole Merlin
conspiracy. What do you think the real story is with her and her broom?"
Cedric looked at James for a long moment, studying him. "Did it ever
occur to you that her broom might be exactly what she says it is?"
"What?" James scoffed. "A 'Muggle artifact'? That's just a ruse she
came up with, isn't it?"
Cedric shrugged, but it looked more like the shrug of someone who
knows more than he intends to tell. "The scariest people in the world are not
always the ones who are bent on evil, James. Sometimes, the scariest person
is the one who mistakes their own lies for the truth."
James blinked. "You mean… Tabitha Corsica believes all that stuff she
said in the debate? About Voldemort actually being a good guy? That he
was squashed by the Ministry and the magical ruling class because they
couldn't have him changing the status quo? She can't really believe that, can
she?"
Cedric looked back at James, and then sighed. "Honestly, I don't know.
But I do know that lots of people do believe it. And she seems pretty
sincere about it. That broom of hers may have some scary mojo built into it,
but it's nothing compared to the dark magic someone might conjure if their
heart is crooked enough to twist a lie into something they believe is truth."
As James climbed quietly back into his bed, his mind raced. He had
never even considered that Tabitha Corsica might believe the things she
said. He had assumed that she was supporting the Progressive Element

propaganda because she fully accepted and endorsed their ultimate, dark
goals. For a moment, he felt vaguely sorry for her. It was awful to think that
someone like her might believe she was morally in the right, and that he,
James Potter, and his father, were the evil ones. It was almost unthinkable,
but not entirely. Outside, the moon was full and bright. James fell asleep
with its beams on his face, pale and cool, his brow still slightly furrowed.
The next day, James, Zane, and Ralph rode the Hogwarts Express
back to Platform Nine and Three Quarters. Zane's parents were there, along
with his younger sister, Greer, who watched the gigantic crimson engine
with naked awe. Standing near them, James spied his mum and dad, herding
Albus and Lily along with them. He grinned and waved. It felt like hardly a
week ago that he'd watched them from the train as it had pulled out of the
station, carrying him to the uncertainty of his first year at Hogwarts. Now
he was home again. Hogwarts was wonderful, he thought to himself, but he
was glad to be back, after all. Next year, he'd be accompanying Albus on
the train, taking him to his first year. He'd tease Albus endlessly about what
house he'd end up in. It was going to be his summer's project, in fact. But he
wasn't worried about it. Even if Albus wasn't a Gryffindor, he'd be okay.
James knew that if Albus was indeed sent to another house, part of him,
James, would even be a little jealous of him. But only just a little.
As he joined the throng exiting the train, James fell in behind Ted. Ted,
James noticed, was holding Victoire's hand.
"You're going to cause a load of trouble, you know," James said,
grinning.
"It's a tough job, being this controversial," Ted said humbly, "but we
all have our burdens to bear."
"My parents must not see us together," Victoire commanded. "Ted
Lupin, don't you ruin everything. You know they won't approve. You will
keep your mouth shut, too, James."
"Her accent is much more prominent when she's harping, isn't it?" Ted

asked James.
James grinned. It was true.
James stopped inside the open door of the train, looking about the
platform. Through the crowd of returning students, bustling porters and
yelling family members, he saw Zane engulfed in the mutual hug of his
pretty blonde mother and his tall, proud father. His sister was sucked into
the embrace, as if against her will, happy to see her brother again but still
enthralled by the crimson train. Ralph met his dad on the platform with a
more restrained hug, both grinning a bit sheepishly. Ralph glanced back up
at James and waved.
"Dad says we'll be spending the summer in London! I'll be able to
come and visit!"
"Excellent!" James yelled back happily.
And then, as he climbed down, James saw his own family watching for
him. In the moment before they caught sight of him, James savored his own
happiness. This was indeed home. He ran toward them, patting his jeans
pocket to make sure the little doll Madame Delacroix had made of him was
still there. It probably wouldn't mean anything, but there was no harm in it.
No harm at all.
"James!" Albus cried, seeing him first. "Did you bring us anything?
You promised!"
"What am I? Father Christmas?" James answered, laughing as Albus
and Lily nearly bowled him over.
"You promised! You promised us Licorice Wands from the cart lady!"
"And Cauldron Cakes for Rose and Hugo," Harry added, grinning.
"Wow, word sure travels fast. All right, all right, I've got stuff for
everybody!" James admitted. He emptied his pockets, filling Albus' and

Lily's hands with sweets. He pulled the voodoo doll out last and looked at it
a bit uncertainly.
"What in the world is that, James?" Ginny said, embracing him and
then looking at the object in her son's hands. "It looks like… well, you!"
James' face broke into a grin. "It's for you, Mum. I thought you'd like
to keep it when I went off to school next year. You know, to remember me
by."
Ginny looked at it quizzically, and then glanced up at Harry. He
shrugged and smiled. "Well, it's a bit odd, but all right," she said, taking the
doll from him. "If I hug it, will you feel it?"
James shrugged, effecting disinterest as the family began to make their
way into the main terminal. "I don't know. Whatever. It's… you know,
worth a try, I suppose."
Ginny nodded, smiling and throwing a glance at Harry. She gave it a
try.

THE END

