JAMES POTTER AND THE CURSE
OF THE GATEKEEPER

G. Norman Lippert
Based upon the characters and worlds of J. K.
Rowling

Dear Reader,
A word before we begin. You don't mind, do you? I'd like to discuss,
for just a moment, who this story is for, and who it isn't.
If you are the sort of Harry Potter fan prone to get exercised about the
proper capitalization of terms like 'Umgubular Slashkilter', then this story is
probably not for you.
If you are among that most faithful of fans who simply cannot
countenance any slight discrepancy in the number of buttons on Professor
McGonagall's tartan dress robes (six; tortoise-shell) or is driven to fisticuffs
about the relative pulling and carrying strengths of Thestrals (1,120
kilograms and 70 kilograms, respectively) or breaks into cold, nervous
sweats at the thought of improperly scheduled dates of any given season's
Quidditch matches, (See HPL; 'Quidditch'), then this story might not be for
you.
If, in short, you are among that most delightful and vigilant cadre of
HP fans who believe that the Harry Potter stories and themes exist only to
support the "canon" minutae of the Harry Potter universe, and not the other
way around, then this story is most assuredly and emphatically not for you.
If, on the other hand, you simply loved the Harry Potter stories and
characters and were sad to see them come to an end, then welcome. If you
delight in shared adventure more than solitary navel-gazing, then come
ahead and join hands. If you prefer battling evil over battling one another,
then you are among friends. If, in short, you believe that the story is king
above all else, then this story, most definitely and affectionately, is for you.
Enter and join us on the ongoing journey! I hope you have a grand time.
For the rest of you, surely there is an argument going on somewhere
about who the best movie Dumbledore was. I'd hate for you to miss it.
(Note: this book is a sequel to another story called "James Potter and the
Hall of Elders' Crossing". While this story might stand on its own with a

little imaginative help from the reader, it will be much better appreciated as
part of the series.)
—GNL

CONTENTS
Prologue
1. Endings and Beginnings
2. The Borley
3. The Sorting
4. Trial of the Golden Cord
5. Albus and the Broom
6. the King of the Cats
7. Amsera Certh
8. The Audition
9. The Lady of the Lake
10. The Beacon Stone
11. The Circle of Nine
12. Questions of Trust
13. Christmas at Hogwarts
14. Artis Decerto

15. Out of Hogsmeade
16. Unexpected Confrontations
17. The Bloodline
18. The Triumvirate
19. The Sacrifice
20. The Long Ride Home

For Greer A Rose by any other name.

PROLOGUE

Rain fell in great sheets, hitting the pavement hard enough to send up a
blattering, dirty mist. A small man stood on the corner, under the only
working streetlamp, and studied the street.
Abandoned apartment buildings lined one side, dark and hulking, like
dead dinosaurs. The other side was dominated by an equally dismal factory
behind a chain-link fence. Warning signs on the fence squeaked and rattled
in the wind. One car was parked along the street, looking as if it had been
there long enough to become part of the local ecosystem. The small man
shuffled his feet, his bald head glistening with rain. He glanced back,
toward the busier streets from which he'd just come, and then made a
harrumphing noise. He pulled his fist out of his overcoat pocket and held it
up to the light. When he opened his hand, there was a small, sodden bit of

parchment inside it. He read the words on the parchment for the tenth time.
Blue-inked letters spelled the street name and nothing else. The man shook
his head, annoyed.
He was about to close the bit of parchment into his fist again when the
words bled away in the dripping rain. The little man blinked at the space
where they had been. Slowly, new words appeared on the paper, as if inked
by an invisible hand: an address.
The little man frowned at the parchment, and then shoved it back into
his pocket. Glancing aside, he located a number over the door of the nearest
abandoned apartment. He sighed and walked out of the yellow glow of the
streetlight, splashing heedlessly in the flooded gutter.
As most people who knew how to look would know, the little man
wasn't a man at all. He was a goblin. His name was Forge and he hated
venturing into the human world. Not that anyone had ever noticed his
unusual size or strange features. He wore boots with four-inch heels and a
Visum-ineptio charm that caused people to see him as a kindly old man
with a severe stoop. He simply didn't like humans. They were dirty,
inefficient, and rowdy. Forge liked his world to be like his workshop: neat,
organized, and constantly swept of any useless bits. It wasn't so much that
Forge wished humans didn't exist; he was simply glad that they had their
own special world to live in, and that he rarely had to go there, rather like a
zoo.
He'd almost decided not to come out tonight. Something hadn't felt
right about this appointment. Considering Forge's unique skills, it was not
unusual that he didn't know the name of a client, but he was accustomed to
a certain amount of decorum, not just a note and a number. Forge knew
what the number meant however. It was the pay being offered for his
services, and it was quite a surprising number indeed. Surprising enough to
get Forge out of his workshop, chasing down the mysterious address in this
decrepit stretch of human wasteland even in spite of his trepidation. After
all, Forge was a goblin.
He stopped walking and stared up at the number of the apartment next

to him. He glanced across the street, furrowing his brow. The factory fence
had ended half a block earlier. In its place was an empty lot, choked with
weeds, blowing trash and broken bottles. An abandoned lorry leaned
drunkenly in the corner, settling into the mud and tall grass. A wooden sign
in the center of the lot had half fallen over. 'Future Home of Chimera
Condominiums and Recreational Complex', it read in faded letters. Forge
took his fist out of his pocket again and opened it. The address was gone
from the parchment. Two new words spelled themselves out:
Turn around.
Forge dropped his fist to his side. He stared at the vacant lot, chewing
his lips. Was he being warned to go back? Part of him hoped so, but he
doubted it. Slowly, he turned around on the spot so that he stood in the
center of the deserted street, looking up at the dark bulk of the apartment
building. A broken window stared down at him like the eye of a skull. The
wind gusted, lifting the curtains of the broken window, making them flutter.
Forge sighed and looked down at the parchment again:
Walk. Backwards.
"Well," Forge muttered to himself, "in for a Knut, in for a Galleon." He
began to walk backwards, lifting his boots carefully to avoid tripping over
the curb or the piles of rotting trash. He stepped carefully onto the footpath
and continued, feeling for the muddy weed bed of the vacant lot. The
footpath seemed wider than he'd expected. Each step backwards found
solid, smooth stone. Forge glanced down. There were worn, carefully laid
flagstones beneath his boots instead of the rough cement slabs of the
footpath. He looked up again and drew in a whistling breath. Two
monstrous shapes leered down at him. They were gargoyles, each perched
atop a stone pillar. Rain splattered and ran down their horrible faces.
Between the pillars was a tall wrought-iron gate. As Forge watched, it
swung shut with a rattling, resounding crash, closing him inside. He turned
on the spot, his heart pounding, and saw that the wrought-iron formed a
fence all around the lot. It was six feet tall and spiked with angry points.
Nor was the lot any longer filled with trash. It was a lawn, carefully
cropped, each blade of grass eerily sharp and exactly the same length as its

fellows. The rain beaded on the grass like crystal. Where the abandoned
lorry had stood was now a long, black carriage, immaculately shiny and
covered with gothic scrollwork. There were no yokes for horses on the
carriage. Forge shuddered, and then looked up toward the center of the lot.
In the place of the leaning sign was a house. It was not huge, but it was
almost unnaturally tall. Its shuttered windows looked twenty feet high and
the mansard roof that topped it almost seemed to rake outward, like a
vulture brooding. Pillars framed the front door, which was painted black
and had a giant brass door knocker in the center. Forge swallowed, drew
himself up, and approached the door.
As he climbed the steps, Forge wasn't surprised to see that the brass
door knocker had been crafted to resemble a coiled snake with glittering
emerald eyes. Nor was he surprised to see it stir to life at his approach. The
head rose from its brass coils and flicked a golden tongue.
"You bear the parchment?" the snake hissed.
"You best believe I do. Open the door before I catch my death in this
rain."
"Sssshow ussss."
"I didn't come all this way to argue with a bit of enchanted metallurgy.
Open the blasted door and tell your master I've arrived."
The snake's head rose very slightly so that it looked down at Forge's
head. The eyes glowed green and the tongue flickered. "Sssshow ussss the
parchment."
Forge looked up at the snake's head. It weaved slightly, flicking the air
with its tongue. Forge had grown up with a metalsmith father and knew
how enchanted ornaments were made. Even so, there was something about
the weaving brass head and the flickering golden tongue that worried him.
He stuffed his hand into the pocket of his coat and retrieved the parchment.

"Here. See?" he said, trying to keep the tremor out of his voice. "Now
open the door."
The snake stretched out toward the parchment in Forge's hand. It
reared, and then spat a bolt of green flame. Forge yanked his hand away,
yelping as the flame consumed the parchment in midair. The snake's eyes
glowed brighter as it uncoiled even further from the door, leaning out
toward Forge's face. Forge wouldn't have thought it was possible, but the
sculpture seemed to grin at him.
"Prossssccceeed," it said. The door unlocked and swung ponderously
open.
Forge entered slowly, peering around. He found himself in a long
hallway, laid with rich, if rather threadbare, red carpet. There were thick
doors on either side, lacquered to a mirror-black shine. All of them were
closed except for the one at the very end. Voices came from beyond,
echoing so that Forge couldn't quite understand them. He opened his mouth
to announce himself when the door suddenly slammed shut behind him.
Startled, he glanced back at it, his eyes wide, and then listened again. The
voices were still speaking. The masters of the house must have heard the
slam of the door; therefore, they must know he'd arrived. Water dripped
steadily from the tail of Forge's overcoat as he walked quietly down the
hall, toward the open door and the voices.
Beyond the door was another dark room. There was a bench along one
side and a long, ornately framed mirror on the other. A second open door
showed a corner of a third room. Forge thought it looked like a library.
Firelight flickered on the walls and shadows moved. The voices had
become more distinct.
"It is very dark," said a woman's raspy voice. "We are rather far away,
my lord. It is impossible to be certain."
"Pray do not say that," a man's voice replied. "'Impossible' is such a

very… final word. Perhaps you would care to be a bit more nuanced,
madam."
"Yes," the woman said quickly. "I err, my lord. Let me look again."
There was a stirring, as of someone moving in a large chair, and a
different man's voice spoke impatiently, "Just tell us what you see, woman.
We will decide what it is."
The woman moaned, either in fear or concentration. "There are three
figures… small. They are… no, they are not small. They are young. One is
larger, another is fair-haired. They are… there is commotion. Fighting."
Forge listened, unsure of what he was supposed to do. He looked
around the darker antechamber of the library and saw a coat rack standing
next to the door. He shrugged off his overcoat and hung it there. Water
pattered from it to the wooden floor. Apparently, he was meant to wait until
this current interview was over. He approached the bench but did not sit on
it. In the mirror across from the bench, Forge could see a reflection of the
library beyond the doorway. Three large chairs were turned to face the
fireplace. He could only see their backs.
"There is another figure," the woman's voice rasped. "Thin and tall. A
wraith, if I know my psychic signatures. The boys are fighting her. I see… I
see a cloud of embers descending. I fear I am losing the vision…"
"Let me look," the impatient voice demanded.
"Be still, Gregor. Divination isn't your strong suit," the first voice said
silkily. "Let the woman exercise her talents."
In the mirror, Forge saw a hand moving on the arm of one of the
chairs. It was very white and had a large black ring on it. The shadow of the
woman moved on the wall of the library. Forge recognized the stoop and hat
of a hag. She was bent over her crystal ball.
"No…," the hag breathed, now lost in her work. "This is not the fog of

distance or any sort of Confusion Hex. This is something else. Something is
descending on the place. Something is… forming."
There was a tense silence. Forge felt it, and knew that the two men
were listening very intently.
"The fight is done…," the hag said in a singsong voice, now
completely immersed in her divination. "There is a ghost now as well… it is
assisting the wraith… or perhaps it is the other way around. There is much
conflict in the ether. But the fog has descended. It is forming… it is making
a… a…"
The hag suddenly gasped. Forge saw her shadow lurch backwards,
clapping her hands to her head. There was clatter and a crash as something
fell.
"Keep looking!" the impatient voice, Gregor, shouted. "Look and tell,
or so help me…"
"Stop," the other man's voice said, almost playfully. There was a smile
in it. "Gregor, leave the poor woman alone. Obviously, she has seen
something that has upset her a great deal."
The hag was panting, and then, strangely, horribly, another voice
spoke. It was very thin, high, cold, but nonsensical. Forge couldn't hear its
actual words, but it seemed gleeful, somehow. The few remaining hairs at
the base of Forge's neck stuck straight up.
"What did you see?" Gregor demanded, ignoring the thin, muttering
voice. "What was it?"
"Let us not overtax the poor woman," the first voice said. "She has
performed her services quite well. We shall see that she receives payment as
agreed. Thank you, madam."
"It was a man," the hag panted, her voice trembling. "But then…"

"Yes, thank you," the man's voice said soothingly. "I believe we've
heard enough. Gregor, perhaps you'd be so kind as to show our guest—"
"Horrible," she keened, and then sobbed hugely. Forge watched the
hag's shadow dip, and then another shape, a fat man, jumped up, supporting
her.
"Yes," the first voice said, dismissing her. "He was horrible, this man.
Thank you."
"No!" the hag shouted. Forge saw her shadow lunge, pulling away
from the shadow of Gregor. "Not the man! He was awful enough, but
then…"
There was a pause as the hag seemed to crumple again. The white hand
on the arm of the chair rose slightly. The black ring twinkled in the firelight.
"And then?"
The hag shuddered. "Something else. Something… came through… it
was…"
She didn't seem able to continue. The white hand on the arm of the
chair remained still, poised in a gesture that looked almost like a
benediction. Firelight flickered and snapped. The horrible, otherworldly
voice buzzed and gibbered quietly to itself.
"Smoke," the hag finally said. Her voice had gone high, nearly falsetto.
She sounded like a child. "Black fire. Ash and… and… eyes… and nothing.
Living nothing."
There was a pause, and then the white hand closed into a loose fist.
"Well," the first man's voice said casually, "that changes things a bit.
Perhaps you should like to be paid here and now, madam. Tonight. Lemuel,
please escort our guest… er… some place else, won't you? You'll find a
proper place to pay her, I'm certain."

Shadows moved. A heretofore unseen figure arose and led the hag
away from the firelight. Forge felt a sudden panic that they would come
through the antechamber and find him, and then he remembered he was
supposed to be here. They were expecting him. He wondered fleetingly if it
was too late to sneak back out. Price or no price, this was looking to be a
very bad group with which to get involved. To Forge's relief, Lemuel led
the hag out through another door at the back of the library. Lemuel moved
like a trained servant, though rather older than Forge had expected. The hag
lolled as she walked, her eyes grey and blank. Neither of them paid Forge
any mind.
"Then it is done," Gregor said as the rear door of the library closed.
"Merlinus is returned. Your plan is complete."
"The plan is far from complete, but yes, up to this point, everything
has proceeded as expected. The Delacroix woman will be disposed of. The
Potter boy will be mortified to know that he was the tool to bring about our
ends. And Merlinus Ambrosius is loosed upon the world yet again. But,
Gregor, you should be careful in calling this my plan. You know whose
design this is. I'll not take credit for the work of the Dark Lord."
Gregor ignored the rebuke. "How can we be certain that Merlin will be
one of us?"
"We cannot. Merlin's loyalties never belonged to anyone but himself.
This is why the Dark Lord was never interested in such an alliance while he
was living. Merlin himself was never the prize, as you know."
Forge heard Gregor shift again in his seat. "Not everyone believes these
tales," he said quietly.
"Only fools doubt the existence of the Otherworlds. Even the Muggles
believe in Heaven and Hell. All that concerns us is that the Dark Lord
believed in them. If he had not fallen, we would never have resorted to it.
But even he saw the value of a fail-safe."

"Yes," Gregor replied. "The fail-safe. The Bloodline."
"No," the first voice said quietly. "The Bloodline is not yet perfect. It
knows not who it is. Its power is undiscovered, divided, and dim. The
Bloodline has not yet been sharpened by the gauntlet of death, as was the
Dark Lord, its creator. It must be… refined."
"And this is the work of the Otherworlder?"
"Among other things."
Gregor sighed theatrically. "Even so, the faithful are scattered. Many
are in Azkaban. More are dead. The dog, Fletcher, is in the custody of the
Ministry. The Langlock Jinx silences him, and his identity is still
undiscovered, but if your conspiracy crumbles, connections will be made.
Potter will recognize him from his days with the Order. They will find a
way to communicate with him. Sacarhina and Recreant will be incriminated
first, but you will be next. After all, you were there with them in the cave of
the throne. You yourself performed the curse upon them. Fletcher will
betray you."
"Fletcher has nothing that the Ministry can use against us," the silky
voice soothed. "Like all weak governments, they are far too enamored with
their ideals of justice to be effective against a truly wily enemy. Potter will
watch us when and where he can, but that is all. Let him. He believes the
battle is over. He saw the Dark Lord cut down at his own thieving hand.
And shall I shock you, my friend? Perhaps that was for the best. After all,
the seed must die for the flower to blossom. Perhaps it was best that our
Lord was cut down by the coward, Harry Potter. He and his allies have been
lured these many years into a false sense of security. They believe that we,
like them, are cowards, that we will not rise up again with vengeance in our
hearts, stronger than ever. And let us not forget the legend, Gregor. We may
indeed be the tools in the hand of our greatest forefather. It may well be our
mission to close the circle of ancient revenge, a circle that was begun over a
thousand years ago. My friend, I dare to suggest that the plan that was put
into motion by the death of the Dark Lord may be even greater than his

original intention. Given what we have discovered, I am certain that he
would agree with me."
Gregor's shadow leaned forward. "Are you certain, my friend?"
"Call it an educated guess. After all, I was among his closest and most
loyal servants. You know as well as I the… difficulties we face. For now."
There was a clink as Gregor reached for a wine glass. "Perhaps we
shouldn't say any more in front of our guest."
"Ah, yes," the silky voice replied. "How insufferably rude of me to
speak as if he were not here. Mr. Forge, do join us, won't you?"
Forge jumped. He'd become so transfixed by the conversation that he'd
forgotten that they were waiting for him. He peeked around the door into
the library. Firelight flashed along the edges of the leather chairs.
"Yes, thank you, Mr. Forge," the silky voice said airily. The white hand
beckoned. As it did, two of the three chairs began to turn. They revolved
silently, as if on bearings, and Forge saw that they floated very slightly off
the floor. "Tell me, my goblin friend, have you ever heard of the Transitus
Nihilo?"
"No, sir," Forge said instantly, relieved that his voice didn't betray his
nervousness. "I'm just a simple trade goblin. I don't know about any of these
things. In fact, I'd be willing to wager that I'll forget every word you've said
by the time I'm fifty steps from this house."
The chairs stopped turning and Forge saw the men sitting there. The
one on the left had long whiteblonde hair framing a handsome, rather aged
face. He was smiling disarmingly, as if inviting Forge to share a joke. The
one on the right, Gregor, was fatter and red-cheeked, with the expression of
long indulgence that belied a life of pureblood leisure.
"Fear not, my friend," the pale man said. "We crave your services
rather more than your blood. Allow me to enlighten you. The Transitus

Nihilo is the crossing place. It is the Void between our world and the next.
Tell me, you believe in the next world, don't you?"
"I'll believe in whatever you ask me to believe if it gets me back out
your door in less than two pieces, my lord."
The man laughed. "That's what I love about goblins, Gregor. They are
as candid as the day is long." He turned back to Forge. "I'll give you
something else you might choose to believe in, my new friend. Our ancient
forefathers believed that there was more to our world than that which we
see and feel with our senses. They believed in the existence of unseen
entities, beings greater than us, more powerful, immortal and inhuman.
They exist not only in the beyond, but in the nothingness in between. They
had words for them. I won't bother you with the names, for there were
hundreds of them. But there was one being in particular that drew the
interest of ambitious men. It is sometimes called the Gatekeeper, or the
Being of Smoke and Ash. It does not break into our world, for it knows us
not. It is made of the Void, it is our exact opposite; therefore, it neither
suspects our existence, nor the existence of anything else. It is bound by its
own perfect ignorance of us. And this, you think, is a good thing, yes, Mr.
Forge?"
The goblin stood stiffly, staring into the man's bright eyes. He nodded.
"Yes, of course you do. Because a creature of such unadulterated
inhumanity, such thoughtless power, if it were descended upon us, would be
nothing less than the Destroyer, wouldn't it? Thus, it is a good thing that it
is out there… and we are down here. Little children go to sleep each night
understanding the truth of this: there are bad things lurking in the world,
yes, but not the worst of things. It knows us not. And yet…" The man
looked away for a moment, his eyes narrowed. "What if something made it
aware of us? After all, we move in and out of the crossing place all the
time, do we not? When we die, yes, we pass through. But when we perform
certain kinds of magic, when we Disapparate, do we not also dip fleetingly
into the Void? Fortunately, the Gatekeeper lives outside of time, so it does
not notice our tiny, timebound existences. But what if one of us bent the
rules just a bit? What if one of us, a particularly powerful one, stepped out

of time and into the Void? What if one of us stayed there long enough for
the Gatekeeper to take notice?"
The goblin hadn't been paying much attention, being rather
preoccupied with doing whatever he needed to do to get out of the house
alive, but suddenly he remembered the words of the hag: Black fire. Ash…
eyes… and nothing. Living nothing.
"What have you done?" Forge asked quietly.
"Me?" the pale man replied, raising his eyebrows. "Not a thing. I'm
just passing the time. Gregor here tends to believe in fantastic stories like
this. It amuses him."
Gregor grunted and rolled his eyes. The horrible, mewling voice came
again. It seemed to be coming from the chair that still faced the fire. Forge
felt the skin of his scalp tighten. The voice was mad. It chilled him.
"But let us get down to business, as it were," the pale man continued.
"Mr. Forge, we require your services. We understand that you are a bit of an
expert on, er, restoration. Would that be accurate?"
Forge shifted. "I am just a simple trade goblin, sir—"
"You are a master forger," the pale man said suddenly, his voice as
cold as an ice pick. "Tell me you are. I'd hate to think that I've summoned
you here in vain."
"Y-yes, sir," Forge answered quickly, trying not to tremble.
"Excellent," the pale man replied breezily, leaning comfortably back in
his chair. "And I have come to understand that this expertise of yours
extends to restoring portraits. Would that also be correct? Don't lie to me,
Mr. Forge. I'll know."
Forge gulped and glanced at Gregor. The man seemed to be paying no
attention. He stared idly at the wine in his glass as he swirled it.

"I… yes," Forge said. "It takes more time, of course. It isn't merely a
matter of replacing the paint. The correct potions must be determined for
each color… unimportant bits have to be scraped and reused to get the
proper compositions… it's very delicate, but I have achieved a level of
success."
"That's very fascinating," the pale man said, his blue eyes boring into
the goblin. He's mad, Forge thought. Completely nutters. I wonder if the
other one knows it. I wonder if they are both mad, but in different ways.
The pale man stood. "We have a job for you, Mr. Forge. It will be
rather difficult, I am afraid, but I suspect a goblin of your obvious skills will
find it a worthy challenge indeed. It is a priceless family heirloom, you see.
For the longest time, we believed it was lost. Funny, isn't it, how things tend
to turn up when you need them most? It's been rather dreadfully damaged
by, er, vandals. But if there was anything you thought you could do to help,
we'd be most eternally… grateful."
The thin voice was gibbering again as the pale man began to turn the
middle chair. Suddenly, Forge absolutely did not want to see what was
there. He wanted to run, or at least avert his eyes. He knew if he did, they
would probably kill him. He watched and listened, and as the chair turned,
the voice finally became intelligible.
"Show meee himmm!" it rasped in its awful, tiny, broken voice. "Show
him meee!" And it began to laugh, high and crackling, a thoroughly mad,
fragmented, twisted laugh.
The portrait was not large. It was almost entirely destroyed. Only a few
shreds and scraps remained: the corner of the mouth, two fingers of a thin,
pale hand, a single glittering red eye. It had been slashed. The back of the
frame showed dozens of deep gouges and punctures.
"Make him repairrr meeee…," the portrait screamed in its thin,
insectile voice. "Do it, Luciussssss! Make him repairrr meeeeee…"

"It will be his pleasure, my Lord," the pale man smiled, looking up at
Forge, his eyes wet, glistening.
"M-my Lord?" Gregor said, as if shocked to hear the decimated
portrait speak so clearly. "You remain! But we thought…"
"It matterssss not!" the portrait of Voldemort cried. "The Gatekeeper
isss descended! The work of our forefather is at hand! Vennngeance!"
Gregor seemed hopelessly at a loss by this sudden change of events.
"But… but how will we find it, my Lord?"
"Weeee will not…," the portrait hissed. The sound of its broken voice
flapped a shred of the canvas. Forge dreaded the sight of the horrible thing,
dreaded what they were going to make him do to it. But he dreaded most
what he knew it was going to say next.
The painting sighed deeply and said, on the exhale, "It will find
ussss…"

1. ENDINGS AND BEGINNINGS
"C ome on, James!" Albus cried, hopping impatiently. "Let me give it a
try. Nobody will tell!" "You know I can't, you Skrewt," James replied
calmly, swinging a leg over his Thunderstreak. "You're underage. You'll just
have to learn in school like everybody else does." He kicked off, leaning
forward so that the broom rocketed out over the garden.
"You just want me to look as much a fool as you did on a broom your
first year!" Albus called, running after his brother. "It won't work! I'm
gonna be brilliant! I'll fly circles around you, you watch!"
James smiled as the wind whipped through his hair. He pulled up and
banked, circling back toward Albus. Albus stopped, frowning, and ducked
as James flew past, tousling his younger brother's hair.
James hugged his broom and climbed into a streaking corkscrew,

pulling up into the blue dome of the sky. Below, the Burrow spun lazily,
casting its shadow out over the garden and the nearby fields. James drew a
deep breath of the rushing air, and then dipped his broom, pulling it to a
sudden, practiced stop. He knew he shouldn't show off in front of his
brother, but he was quite proud of his increasing skills. His dad had been
working with him over the summer, and James had become cautiously
confident that he'd make the House team this year after all.
"About time, Potter," Ted called, swinging in next to James on his old
but well-maintained Nimbus 2000. "Three-on-three is hard enough, even
with experienced players. You'll need to play Beater and Seeker. Just keep
an eye on Angelina. She'll let you think she's delicate as a flower until she
drafts you into a tree. George is playing Beater and Keeper as well, so he'll
be plenty busy, but his long-range Bludger will still find you if you don't
watch it. But the one you've really got to keep an eye on is—"
Something red and green roared between Ted and James, forcing them
into opposite tumbles. James gripped his broom and swung it around,
craning to look. His mum spun to a stop and drifted gently over him,
grinning, her cheeks flushed and her hair pulled back in a neat ponytail. She
was wearing her Holyhead Harpies tunic.
"What do you think, James? Still fits!"
James heard the sound of an appreciative whistle behind him. He
looked and saw his dad smiling at Ginny, pulling his broom into position
thirty feet away.
"Dad! Mum!" James reproached, stifling a grin. "Quit it! You're both
an embarrassment!"
Ginny blew a stray hair out of her face. "You just watch your back out
there, love. I may be your mum, but that doesn't mean I won't broadside you
to get to the Snitch." She grinned at him, and then spun on her broom and
zoomed to the opposite side of the pitch.
"She's not serious," James said, turning to Ted.

"You better hope not," Ted answered, watching Ginny fly off. "I've
played against her before, and I tend to think your only hope is that she
won't Bludger her own son in the back of the head."
"You're a great help," James said, but Ted had already dropped back
into formation.
"Knock James off his broom, Mum!" Albus yelled from below. James
glanced down and saw him standing at the edge of the orchard. Nearby,
Lily, Rose, and Hugo sat on a huge tartan blanket, grinning and squinting
up into the sunlight. Charlie's twins, Harold and Jules, were perched in a
gnarled old oak tree by the barn.
Rose nudged Lily with her elbow. "Go for it, Aunt Ginny! Knock him
flying! You can always have another kid! One with better manners and less
stinky feet!"
"I heard that!" James called down.
"I should hope so," Rose said primly, putting her fists on her hips and
smiling coquettishly. Lily giggled.
"Enough, Rose," Aunt Hermione admonished from a deck chair at the
edge of the garden.
"I'd play on your team, Harry, if I could," Ron yelled from the chair
next to her. "But three-onthree's the tradition. Maybe somebody will get
hurt enough not to play and I'll be able to sub in, eh?"
Hermione grimaced and scowled at him.
"What? A guy can hope, can't he?" Ron protested. He looked back up
at Harry. "Looks like we'll have to host an all-out tournament by next year!"
Harry nodded. "None of us were kidding when we said we wanted to
have enough kids to make a Quidditch team, were we?" he called back.

Charlie stood in the center of the garden, below the players. He had
one foot on the family's bedraggled old Quidditch trunk. He held a Quaffle,
yellow with age and grass-stained, in his right hand.
"The Annual Weasley Family Quidditch Match is now underway!" he
boomed, grinning. "I want to see a mean match. I want to see plenty of
blagging, loads of bumphing, and a good bit of blatching. Any player not
bloody by the end of the match will be deemed unfit to remain a Weasley
and will have to defect to the Potters. Understood?"
"Throw the Quaffle or get on a broom, Freckles!" Harry yelled,
resulting in a round of laughter and catcalls. Charlie grinned crookedly.
"Ball up!" he shouted, lobbing the Quaffle and releasing his foot from
the Quidditch trunk. The lid exploded open and the balls soared into the air.
James gulped, gripped his broom, and lunged into the fray.
Technically, it wasn't James' first Quidditch match. He'd played several
matches over the summer with whoever happened to be around. Granted,
most of them had been two-on-two matches, sometimes using 'ghost
players', which Ted provided from a small box he'd bought from George.
Apparently, it was a Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes test product. When the tiny
wooden box was opened, it released four Boggarts, all of which had been
specially hexed to only take the shapes of famous dead Quidditch players.
They looked extremely convincing even if they were a bit transparent. The
problem was that the Boggarts didn't have the slightest idea how to play
Quidditch; thus, despite their impressive appearance, they tended to simply
swoop randomly over the pitch, their arms in the air, making ghostly noises.
Also, Bludgers flew right through them.
"Still," George had concluded, "they do add a certain something to a
match lacking the right number of players, don't they?"
None of the matches James had taken part in that summer compared to
this, however. Not only did the Weasleys tend to be fiercely competitive,

but all the players knew each other eerily well. This was sometimes a
benefit, such as when George ducked beneath a Bludger and lobbed the
Quaffle over his head, knowing Angelina would be directly behind him to
swat it into the goal with her Beater club. It was also sometimes a dread
drawback, such as when Ginny predicted Ted's favorite maneuver and
plucked the Quaffle from beneath his arm the very moment he swooped to
score. Despite the fervor of the match, there was plenty of laughter and
hearty encouragement on all sides. James knew he'd probably influence the
match very little. He was mostly concerned with staying on his broom and
not letting his own mum make a complete fool out of him in front of Rose
and the rest. To his great pleasure, however, he did manage a few lucky
swats with his club, sending the old Bludgers careening into the fracas and
even occasionally striking their marks. One of them caromed off of
George's broomtail, sending him into a wild, momentary spin. When he
recovered, he glanced back at James and gave him a huge, toothy grin.
"Look at James!" he called to the other players. "Giving the 'old guard'
a warning shot! Next one will be my head, eh, James? Nice shot!" And he
dove back into the melee.
Ron couldn't help jumping up and down at the edge of the pitch,
shouting instructions and warnings through cupped hands.
"Dragon formation!" he bellowed furiously. "Dragon formation,
George at the wing! Harry's left is weak since that hit with Angelina!
They've no defence against it! Ginny, you're drifting to the right! Fix your
tail! Your tail! Oh, come down here and give me your broom!"
Right next to him, Albus matched him shout for shout, sometimes
shoving his uncle aside with both hands. "They're planning a Waterloo
Skidoo, Dad! Stack up and plow the center! Ted! Mum's stopped to fix her
broomtail! She's exposed! Forget she's a girl and Bludger her back to the
Stone Age!"
Hermione had moved to the blanket to sit with Fleur. The two of them
were pointedly ignoring the match, lost in their own animated conversation.

And then, just as the sun was beginning to redden, James caught a
flash of gold flickering near the fifth story of the Burrow. He glanced
around, opening his mouth to alert the Seeker, and then remembered he was
playing Seeker. His heart trip-hammered and he lunged forward, touching
his chin to his broom handle. He shot forward, banking around Angelina
and a wildly spinning Bludger. The rickety walls of the Burrow swayed in
front of him, its windows winking daggers of burnished sunlight at him,
half blinding him. There it was again, the flash of gold, darting through a
stand of birch trees at the corner. James leaned, and the Thunderstreak
responded with perfect control, ticking down and to the right, homing in on
the Snitch. He strained forward, nearly climbing off the end of his broom,
and reached for the tarnished golden ball.
The Snitch suddenly bobbed upwards, just over James' reaching hand.
He shot under it, swore loudly, and then tucked his head as he whipped
through the branches of the birch trees. They tore at him, but he barely
noticed. He leaned so hard that he nearly fell off his broom, slewing to a
halt and craning his head back to find the Snitch. The setting sun dazzled
his eyes. James squinted and saw the tiny golden form of the Snitch. It hung
in the air near the corner of the Burrow's roof, bobbing in the air like a
bumblebee. A darker shape appeared behind it, blocking the sun. It was
Ginny. She saw the Snitch, and then saw James. She grinned, and hugged
her broom, rocketing forward.
"Oh no you don't!" James growled. He lunged, forcing himself to keep
his eyes on the Snitch and not to check to see where his mum was. The
Snitch seemed to sense the pursuit. It zigged out over the pitch, threading
through the players. James hugged his broom, willing it to go even faster,
and was suddenly reminded that the Thunderstreak was equipped with a
rudimentary ability to read its owner's mind. It leapt forward, faster than
James had ever gone before. He dipped under Ted and his dad, who had
noticed the Snitch flash past them. James heard them cheering him on
raucously. A shadow fell over the end of his broom and James couldn't help
glancing up. His mum was directly over him, swooping toward the Snitch,
her tunic flapping. James did the first thing that occurred to him. Suddenly,
wildly, he steered to the left, away from the Snitch, still reaching forward as

if to grab it. Instantly, he corrected and threw himself forward on his broom.
It had worked! He sensed the movement over him as Ginny feinted left,
believing James had seen the Snitch move aside. She'd been watching him
rather than the Snitch itself! The Snitch didn't dodge away from him this
time. He strained forward, brushed it with his fingers as it flew, and then
clamped his hand on it. The wings buzzed against his palm for a moment
before going still. The game was over.
James turned on his broom exultantly, holding the Snitch over his
head. Far behind him, Harry and Ted threw their hands into the air. They
were shouting at him. A second later, James realized they weren't
celebrating. They were making warning signs. James hadn't stopped his
broom. He whipped around to see where he was going just as the gnarled
apple tree at the back of the pitch loomed over him. The breath socked out
of him as a branch swept him from his broom. There was a sickly sensation
of weightlessness, and then he thumped to the ground.
"Ooh," he moaned. Running footsteps approached and a moment later
his mum was kneeling over him.
"James! Tell me you're all right!" she commanded. Lily peered in next
to her, her eyes wide.
"He's all right, everybody," Ted said as he landed nearby, laughing.
"He only dropped eight feet. Besides, all those rotten apples broke his fall."
James sat up and felt the sticky mush of a dozen rotten apples plastered
to his back. He moaned and shook his head, flinging gobbets of apple pulp
from his hair.
"Gah!" Lily cried, sputtering. "Warn me next time you do that, idiot!"
Suddenly, James remembered the Snitch. He glanced down at it in his
hand, and then showed it to his mum. A huge grin broke out on his face.
Ginny smiled down at him crookedly. "Nicely done, son. Just don't
expect to beat me twice."

"Did we win, then?" James asked as Ginny gave him her hand and
pulled him to his feet.
"I hear Albus and your uncle arguing about it even as we speak, but I'd
guess you did."
In the near distance, James heard Ron and Albus heatedly arguing the
final score.
"Excellent grab, James," Harry said to his son, brushing rotten apple
off the back of James' shirt as they returned to the Burrow.
"Yeah," Ted agreed happily, "great use of the old dodge and feint. I
was sure your mum was gonna beat you to the gold, but you really took the
biscuit, didn't you?"
"I'll say," George said sourly, turning and walking backwards so as to
glare pointedly at Ginny, his broom slung over his shoulder. "In fact, if I
recall correctly, I think it was a member of this very family that invented
that maneuver."
Ginny looked innocently at her brother. "I haven't the faintest idea
what you mean, George."
"No? Hmm! Well, if I remember right—and I do—the Harpies'
announcers used to call it the 'Ginevra Gambit'. Funny thing, you falling for
a maneuver named after you, isn't it? Right suspicious, in fact."
Ginny simply shrugged and smiled. George continued to walk
backwards, fuming at her. Finally, Angelina tripped him.
"James, why don't you go gather your brother and cousins for dinner?"
Harry said, ruffling his son's hair. "Your grandfather will be home soon and
we all want to be there for the big surprise."
"Now look what you did, Dad," James said, trying to matt his hair back

down. "I look like an old picture of you."
"That rotten apple's even better than Hermione's hair gel goo," Ted
commented. "You should tell her about it. Ron says she spends more money
on Muggle hair potions than she does on food."
"What?" Hermione shrilled, bumping Ron with her hip. "You did not!"
James didn't wait for the rest. He tossed his Thunderstreak to his dad
and turned toward the sound of his cousins' voices.
"Hey, it's almost dinner, you lot," he called as he entered the shadow of
the Weasley family's small stone garage. As always, the doors were thrown
wide open. The cool, familiar smell of the dirt floor and dusty shelves
surrounded him. He sighed happily.
"Nice grab, James!" the twins, Harold and Jules, called in unison as
James approached.
"Thanks!"
"Too bad you spoiled it by getting intimate with an apple tree," Rose
said from where she sat, kicking her legs idly. "What a downer."
"Hey," James said, ignoring Rose's remarks. "That's Merlin's car!
What's it doing here?"
Rose glanced down at the bonnet of the car she was sitting on. The old
Anglia had been meticulously cleaned and was half-repainted, but one
headlight still hung askew from its socket. "This isn't Merlin's, you nitwit,"
Rose chided. "It's Grandfather's. Don't you remember the stories about the
flying Ford? Your dad and my dad took it for a joyride back when they were
in school. They ended up losing it in the Forbidden Forest. All Merlin did
was find it. When he discovered whose it was, he arranged to have it
returned here. Grandfather's been getting it back into shape over the
summer."

"He's making some pretty keen modifications to it too!" Hugo
announced, popping his head out the driver's side window. "Watch this!"
He disappeared again and the car rocked a bit as he and Albus moved
around in the front seat.
"That's probably not a good idea—" James began, and then jumped
back as a pair of wood and canvas wings shot out of the sides of the
automobile, squeaking and ratcheting as they unfolded. They began to flap
up and down violently, making the entire car bounce and rock. A moment
later, they screeched to a stop.
"It's a good thing you know how to turn those off!" James exclaimed,
his eyes wide.
"I didn't!" Albus answered, working buttons and levers on the car's
dashboard. "They stopped on their own. Looks like they aren't quite
finished yet. I hope we didn't break them. Hey, Hugo, climb back there and
jump on them a little, why don't you?"
"No, let us!" the twins cried, scrambling toward the wings.
"No!" James called, throwing up his hands. "Nobody jump on
anything! Granddad will leather you with a hex if you break his stuff!"
Hugo scowled, ignoring James. "Too bad Uncle Percy and Aunt
Audrey aren't here. Lucy's the mechanical one. I bet she could get this thing
in the air."
"I wonder why it needs the wings anyway," Rose commented. "I
thought it flew on its own."
"Uncle Harry smashed it into the Whomping Willow at Hogwarts,
remember?" Hugo called out. "Totally crippled it. That's why it ran off into
the Forest and turned all feral."

"You've got it all wrong," Albus said. "Your dad was driving. If my
dad had been behind the wheel, they'd have made a four-point landing."
"Yeah," Rose agreed, "probably right through the windows of the
Great Hall."
The twins guffawed and ran around the car, pretending to fly and
crash. Harold mimicked the Whomping Willow, thrashing at his brother,
who feigned death and keeled over.
"Anyway," Hugo continued, "everybody knows about the Alma
Alerons and their flying cars. I bet Granddad wanted to see if he could
make this fly even better."
James grinned. "Come on, you lot. He'll be home soon. If we don't get
inside, we'll miss the surprise."
"And the cake," Rose added.
That got their attention. Jules and Harold spun on their heels and
darted past James, yelling and trying to push each other out of the way.
Albus shrugged and followed Hugo out the driver's door of the car. Rose
slid off the bonnet and brushed the dust from her bottom with her hands.
"Grandfather's quite peculiar, isn't he?" she said, glancing around at the
Anglia and the collection of mismatched Muggle objects that filled the
shelves nearby. James had seen them a hundred times, but there were
always a few new things. He followed Rose as she approached the
collection and ran her hand lightly over some of the items, drawing lines in
the dust with her fingers. Alongside the assortment of batteries and electric
can openers, extension cords and nose hair trimmers, James saw the newer
additions. There was an old laptop computer, a video game controller, and a
digital alarm clock in the shape of a cartoon character.
"Why do you suppose he loves all this stuff so much?" Rose asked.

"I don't know," James said. "I think part of it is because he grew up a
wizard, not like us. My dad grew up with Muggles. Your mum too. They
brought a bit of the Muggle world with them, so to us, it's no mystery. But
for Granddad, the Muggle world is as foreign as aliens would be to us. He
just loves figuring out how it all works, and what they use it for."
"He could just take a Muggle Studies course, nowadays, couldn't he?"
Rose said as the two of them turned toward the door. "They didn't have
classes like that when he was a kid."
James shrugged. "I guess so. I don't think he wants to learn it like that
though. That's not the point for him. I don't really know what he thinks the
point is though."
Rose tilted her head. "He just loves the mystery of it, don't you think?"
"Well, what's the point of a mystery if you never find out?" James
frowned.
"You're such a boy, James. The moment the mystery is solved, it's not
a mystery anymore."
"Granddad's a boy too, you know."
"No, Grandfather's a man."
James rolled his eyes. "What's the difference, then?"
Rose sniffed. "Well, a man can catch the Snitch and not come out
smelling like a rancid cider house."
James chased her the rest of the way to the back door.
Inside, Grandma Weasley was frantically arranging the final details as
the family milled around, mostly trying to stay out of her way.

"Hugo! Dominique! You get your fingers away from that cake this
moment!" she admonished as she passed by the table, her arms full of plates
and cutlery. "Fleur, would you be a dear and help me with the pudding? It's
Arthur's favorite and I want it right in the middle of the table. Oh, when did
this family become so large that we can't eat indoors without sitting on each
other's laps?"
"It's your fault entirely, Mum," George said reasonably. "You can't go
having seven kids and not expect the lot of us to see it as a dare to have
more."
"Don't you start," Angelina said, grimacing and throwing an arm
around his neck.
"You knew what you were getting into when you got engaged to me,"
George replied airily. "The thing I love best about you is your childbearing
hips."
Angelina tightened her grip around his neck, dragging him into the
parlor where everyone was gathering.
"How'd the match go, James?" Bill asked from his seat next to his son
Louis.
James shrugged and grinned. "Pretty good. Nobody got killed. I caught
the Snitch."
Louis smiled crookedly. "Rose told us all about it already."
James rolled his eyes as Bill laughed and clapped him on the shoulder.
"Oh! Arthur will be here any moment!" Molly fretted, wringing her
hands on her apron and glancing around at her gathered family. "I just know
I'm forgetting something. He's so dreadfully hard to surprise. James! You
didn't change your shirt! You're covered with rotten apple! No! Don't sit on
the sofa! It's too late now to do anything about it, I suppose…"

"Mum," Charlie soothed, "calm down. It's a birthday party, not a
military campaign."
She heaved a quick sigh, letting Charlie massage her shoulders for a
moment. "All I can say is it's a good thing he agreed to that consultant
position at the Ministry. At least it gets him away from the Burrow a few
times a week. Otherwise, I'd never have got him out of the place long
enough to arrange such a thing. Especially since that Merlin character
returned that awful car… Oh! That's what I forgot! Ronald! Do you have
the—"
"Socket wrench set," Ron nodded wearily. "Fresh from the Muggle
hardware store. All wrapped and on the table along with everyone else's
gifts. He'll love it, Mum. Calm down or George and I will have to break out
the Firewhisky."
"Shh!" James' mum hissed, looking hard at the fireplace. "Here he
comes!"
She leaned in, gripping Harry's arm and pulling him with her. The
room fell silent as everyone drew their breath, preparing to shout.
The ash in the fieldstone fireplace swirled, and then suddenly erupted
into flame. It flared, and a figure materialized out of it, plopping onto the
floor in front of the grate with a practiced hop.
"Surprise--" everyone shouted, but the strength of the shout faded on
the second syllable. The new arrival wasn't Arthur Weasley. There was a
sudden, awkward silence as everyone stared at the unexpected form of
Kingsley Shacklebolt.
Kingsley's face was grave. He looked over the room, scanning faces,
until he saw Molly.
"Oh no," Molly said simply.

Kingsley's face didn't change. Together, both he and Molly looked
aside, toward the Weasley family clock.
"Oh no!" Molly said again. She slowly raised her right hand to her
mouth, her eyes wide, shining.
Everyone in the room looked toward the magical clock, the clock that
showed every Weasley family member's whereabouts and well-being. Most
of the family members' hands were pointed toward The Burrow: Parlor.
Arthur Weasley's hand of the clock was pointed straight down, toward two
small red words.
No More.

"Arthur Weasley was among the rarest and most honorable of men,"
Kingsley said in his calm, measured voice. "With those whom he loved, he
was faultlessly gentle, loyal, and wise. With those who deserved his ire, he
was fair, unflagging, and when necessary, fierce. Few who grew up with
him would ever have guessed that this soft-spoken, even comical man
would someday face the greatest enemies of his time. And yet he did,
firmly, and with the kind of quiet courage that comes only from loving well,
and being wellloved."
James sat in the second row, between Albus and Lily. He stared
furiously at Kingsley's face as he spoke, concentrating on the words, trying
very hard not to look at the shiny wooden box behind the big man. The lid
was open, showing a snowy white, cushioned interior. Next to James, Lily
sniffed quietly and leaned against her mother's shoulder. Albus sat ramrod

straight, his face blank and pale. The tiny church at Ottery St. Catchpole
was packed and hot.
"During Arthur's lifetime," Kingsley went on, "he saw both great and
horrible things. In his family, he witnessed the purest of delights, and more
importantly, was the sort of man who knew how to enjoy them. He also
faced the most terrible of trials and endured the greatest sacrifices. And yet
his heart was pure enough to not become embittered by them. Hatred had
no foothold in this man. Viciousness knew him not. Corruption could not
bend him."
Dimly, James was aware of the many family members and friends
who'd travelled from far and wide to be present. He'd seen Hagrid come in,
and even now he could hear the half-giant blowing his nose in the row
behind him. Luna was there along with her skinny new beau, Rolf
Scamander, who in his brown suit and huge glasses looked, to James,
vaguely like a human version of one of those insects cleverly disguised by
nature to resemble a dried stick. Neville Longbottom was present as well as
the Diggorys, who lived nearby in the village. A surprising number of
Granddad's co-workers from the Ministry had also come, most straight from
London.
Directly in front of James sat his grandmother. Molly's shoulders
shook, but she made no sound. Next to her, Bill put his arm around her. His
eyes glistened. He frowned very slightly as Kingsley went on.
"There are men who devote their lives to fairness, who study, and
campaign, and lead charges. There are men who seek power and influence,
who arise to positions of great authority and make momentous decisions.
And there are men who devote their lives to training for war, whose skills
with the wand and the sword are legendary, who are the first into battle and
the last to retreat. Arthur Weasley was not any of these men. He was better.
His benevolence had no root in guilt. His position was not born of pride.
And his fight was not for the sake of glory. In his steadfast heart, he was
effortlessly what most of us try to be by sheer willpower. He was a man
without guile. A man of duty and loyalty. A man with the strength of right,

and love. But mostly, Arthur Weasley… was a father… and a husband…
and a friend."
For the first time, Kingsley lowered his eyes. He pressed his lips
together, and then removed his glasses. Still looking down at the small
podium before him, he concluded:
"Arthur Weasley was the best of his kind. And we shall miss him."
In the silence that followed, James fought back his tears. It was so
confusing. When he'd first understood what was happening that afternoon
as they'd all stood in the parlor looking at Granddad's hand on the Weasley
clock, he'd felt strangely numb. He'd known he should've felt sorrow, or
anger, or fear, but instead, he'd felt just a strange, ringing emptiness. As the
family had dissolved into confused conversation— demands of
explanations, expressions of grief—Harry had taken Lily, Albus, and James
upstairs to the bedroom they'd so often shared.
"Do you understand what this means?" he had asked them, looking
each one in the eyes, his face serious and sad. Lily and Albus had nodded
dumbly. James hadn't nodded. If he'd understood what had happened to
Granddad, he'd have felt something, wouldn't he? Harry had gathered all
three of them into an embrace, and James could feel his dad's cheek on his
shoulder. It had felt hot.
Now, as James watched his grandma and Uncle Bill approach the
casket, he could barely grope around the edges of this sudden, monumental
grief. His throat ached from holding it in. His eyes burned and he blinked
yet again, forcing back the tears. He was ashamed to let it all out, and yet it
felt wrong to hold it in. He was torn in the middle.
Why did Granddad have to die of a stupid heart attack, of all things?
Great wizards just didn't die of such things, did they? This was the man
who'd faced Voldemort's snake and survived to tell of it. How could a man
who'd fought the most vicious villains of all time, who'd made such terrible
sacrifices, have died so stupidly in the end? The unfairness of it was like a
weight of stones on James' heart. Hadn't Granddad earned a reprieve from

something like this? Didn't he deserve at least a few more years to watch his
grandchildren grow up? He was going to miss James' first year on the
Gryffindor Quidditch team. He'd not attend George's and Angelina's
wedding, nor know the names of their children. He'd never unwrap his
Muggle socket wrench set, never use it to finish the homemade wings on
his prize Ford Anglia. It would sit there in the garage, half-painted and with
one headlight still hanging out, until it rusted and lost whatever soul
Granddad had given it. Nobody else cared about it. Eventually, it would be
towed away somewhere and disposed of. Buried.
At the end of the aisle, Harry stood up, helping Ginny to her feet. Lily
and Albus stood as well, but James remained seated. He stared straight
ahead, his cheeks burning. He simply couldn't do it. After a moment, Ginny
led Albus and Lily up the aisle to the casket. James felt his dad sit back
down next to him. Neither tried to talk to each other, but James felt a hand
on his back. It comforted him a little. But just a little.
A few minutes later, the room was almost entirely empty. James
blinked and looked around. He'd barely noticed everyone trickling away,
heading outside into the blinding summer sun. Harry still sat next to him.
James glanced up at him, studying his dad's face for a moment, and then
lowered his eyes. Together, they stood and walked up the aisle.
James had never been to a funeral before, but he'd heard about one.
Albus' namesake, Dumbledore the Headmaster, had meant a terrible lot to
his dad. He'd heard about how, at Dumbledore's funeral, Fawkes the
phoenix had suddenly flown overhead and the tomb had briefly, gloriously,
burst into flames. As James approached his granddad's casket, he wished
something like that would happen. James hadn't known Dumbledore, but
how could that old man have been nobler than his granddad? Why wouldn't
something glorious and beautiful like that happen for Arthur Weasley? And
yet, sadly, James knew it wouldn't.
He climbed the steps to the casket and looked in. He couldn't have
done it if his dad hadn't been there with him, with his big hand on James'
shoulder. Granddad looked the same, but different. His face was wrong,
somehow. James couldn't see specifically what it was, and then he realized:

Granddad was just dead. That's all. Suddenly, shockingly, a memory leapt
into James' head. In it, he saw Granddad sitting on a stool out in the old
family garage, holding a much younger James on his knee, showing him a
toy aeroplane. He held it up in front of young James' wondering eyes and
made it fly back and forth over the workbench, imitating jet noises. James
hadn't known it at the time, but he saw it now in his memory: Granddad was
making the plane fly backwards, tail-first. He smiled down at the boy
James, his eyes twinkling. "It's like a broom with a hundred Muggles in it,"
he said, chuckling. "You know, I've never actually seen one fly. I hope to
someday, James, my boy. I truly do."
James closed his eyes as hard as he could, but it was no use. He sobbed
a great, dry sob and leaned on the edge of the casket. Harry Potter put an
arm around his son's shoulder and held him tightly, rocking him slowly
while he cried, hopelessly and helplessly, like the child that he still was.

"It wasn't really his birthday, of course," Molly was saying to Audrey,
Percy's wife, as they stood in the sunlight of the Burrow's backyard, punch
glasses in their hands. "He was actually born in February. This was going to
be his seventy-eighth-and-a-half birthday party, more or less. Why, it was
the only way we could surprise him! Of course, I should've known that he'd
find a way to have the last laugh, God bless him. Oh Audrey."
James ladled himself a glass of punch and moved away from the table,
not wishing to hear any more. Hagrid was seated rather uncomfortably on
one of the tiny lawn chairs, pressing it into the ground.
"I knew Arthur back when he was still in school, yeh know," Hagrid
said to Andromeda Tonks, who was seated at the table with him. "Never

knew of a gentler soul, did I. Always ready with a smile an' a story. An'
sharp in 'is own way. Sharp as a talon."
James slipped past as inconspicuously as possible. He loved Hagrid,
but he felt weary and washed out from his tears back at the church. He
didn't think he could bear hearing any stories about his granddad as a young
man just now. It was too sad.
He saw Rose, Albus, and Louis seated at one of the portable tables at
the edge of the lawn and went to join them.
"I hear Grandmother might sell the Burrow," Louis said as James
pulled over a chair.
"She can't do that," Rose said, shocked. "It's been the Weasley home
since… since… well, since I don't know how long, but since before our
parents were even born! It's like a part of the family!"
Louis shrugged. "Dad says it's too big for her to manage all alone. I
mean, the place is seven stories tall, not even counting the attic and the
cellar. Besides, it takes a lot of magic just to keep the place upright. Now
that the kids are all moved out, and Grandfather gone, it's just too much
work for her all by herself."
"It just doesn't seem right," Rose insisted, kicking the table leg. She
glanced up, widening her eyes. "So why shouldn't somebody just move
back in with her? George could bring Angelina here when they get married,
couldn't he?"
James glanced out over the yard at the knot of family and friends
milling morosely in the sun. "George can't stay at the Burrow," he said. "He
has the shops to run. Besides, Angelina's taking a tutoring job in
Hogsmeade. They're looking at renting a flat just down the street from the
shop."
"I hear Ted is going to live in the upstairs part," Louis said,

brightening. "He wants to try out for the National Quidditch Team, so
George said he could live with them and work at the shop while he trains."
"He can't be serious," Rose grimaced. "Ted's all right, but does he
really think he can make the national team?"
Louis shrugged again. "Mum says it's a mistake for George to take him
in. She says that Ted just doesn't know what to do with himself and that he
should just buck up and find some regular work."
"Aunt Fleur thinks that about pretty much everybody," Rose
commented.
"Are you two looking forward to starting school next week?" James
said before Louis could reply.
"Is the main ingredient of Halflinger Root potion Halflinger Root?"
Rose said, sitting up excitedly.
James blinked. "I assume the answer to that is 'yes'."
"The new Headmaster's made some changes since last year, you
know," Louis pointed out. "No more sharing dorms between different years.
Much more regulated class schedules. No more putting off secondary
classes until your last year. He pretty much completely wiped out the
changes made by that guy that was Headmaster before McGonagall. Tyram
Wossname."
"I kind of liked having some of the other years in my dorm last year,"
James muttered.
"Yeah, well, Mum says it was Tyram's 'forward-thinking' business that
led to the Progressive Element and all this reforming Voldemort rubbish,"
Louis said wisely, raising his eyebrows.
James didn't have a response to that. He wasn't surprised in the least,

however, that Merlin had made some very conscious choices to take
Hogwarts back to its pre-battle standards and procedures.
"What house do you think we'll get into, James?" Rose asked. "Dad
thinks I'll be a Gryffindor, but what would you expect from him?
Personally, I hope I get into Ravenclaw."
"I haven't the faintest idea what houses you'll be sorted to," James said.
"The Sorting Hat itself doesn't even seem to know until it sits on your head.
I wouldn't be surprised if it takes one look at you and throws eleven
O.W.L.s at you."
Rose arranged the napkin on the table in front of her. "Just because I'm
my mum's daughter, doesn't mean I'm some unnatural genius, you know."
"No," Louis agreed. "But the fact that you've read the entire
Encyclopaedia of Magical Poisons and Antidotes and can actually
remember the exact page number for Barglenarf salve… does."
"That didn't actually happen!" Rose insisted, her cheeks going red.
"Mum's been telling that story for months and it's pure rot. She bought me
those encyclopaedias for my tenth birthday, for Merlin's sake. The only
reason I read them at all is because I wanted to learn how to make the
Draught of… er…"
Louis smiled politely and raised his eyebrows. "The Draught of…?"
"Well, it hardly matters," Rose said stiffly, still fiddling with her
napkin. "But I simply can't help it if I have a mind for details. Besides, it
was just a cure for poison ivy. And I didn't remember the exact page. Just
the chapter it was in."
"Well, that's different, then," Louis replied sardonically.
"Don't try that expression on me," Rose said, throwing the napkin at
him and hitting him in the face. "Nobody does it like Aunt Fleur. She was
practically born with that look on her face."

"Well, I expect to get into Hufflepuff," Louis said, tossing the napkin
back to Rose and trying to look composed. "It's the house most known for
diligence and hard work. I plan to take school very seriously."
Rose rolled her eyes and soundlessly mimicked Louis' words. James
smiled.
"What about you, Albus?" Louis said, nudging James' brother.
Albus sat back and glanced around. "What's it matter, really?"
"What does it matter?" Louis repeated incredulously. "It's only the
single most defining thing about your school life. I mean, what if you get
sorted into the wrong house?"
"And what house would that be?" Albus asked pointedly.
"Well, I don't know," Louis answered, throwing up his hands. "It's
different for everybody, isn't it?"
"Albus Severus Potter," Rose said meaningfully. "Louis hasn't figured
it out, yet. So much for diligence and hard work."
Louis frowned at Rose. "I figured out Albus' full name quite a few
years ago, thanks."
"It's his initials, you git," Rose said primly. "A. S. P. An asp is a kind
of snake."
"So what's that supposed to mean, then?"
"Albus is afraid he'll get sent to the Slytherins," James said, rolling his
eyes. "It's been a bit of a family joke for some time. First Potter to go to the
snakes."
"Oh shut up, why don't you?" Albus said dourly.

"What?" James replied. "It's possible, you know. I almost got sent
there myself."
"Yeah, that's what you keep saying," Albus said quietly. "But then,
glory be, you ended up in Gryffindor. The first-born son of Harry Potter
goes to his dear old dad's house. Who'd've thought it?"
"It's true, Al. But come on, Slytherin can't be all that bad anymore,"
James reasoned. "Ralph's there, and he's all right. Maybe you can join
forces with him and turn the old Slytherin legends inside out, eh?"
Albus scowled, leaned forward, and rested his chin on his forearm.
"Green really is your color, Albus," Rose said thoughtfully. "Goes with
your eyes and your darker hair."
"Yeah," Louis chimed in, "and I hear their dormitories have hot and
cold running dragon's blood."
Albus suddenly stood and skulked away from the table as the others
watched. Rose glanced aside at Louis, one eyebrow raised.
"What?" he said defensively. "It was the best thing I could think of.
Hot and cold running… you know, they say Slytherin families hunt
dragons." He rolled his eyes. "Never mind, it's probably over your head."
"It's unwise to believe everything you hear," a voice said from directly
behind them. James turned and looked up into the face of a man with pale
skin and sharp features. A dark-haired woman stood next to him.
The man smiled tightly. "Please forgive the interruption. I was about to
ask if this was the correct home, but I see the evidence right here in front of
me. I cannot but assume I am speaking to Mr. James Potter, yes?"
James nodded, looking back and forth between the man and the darkhaired woman. They were both good-looking in a rather cold way, and both

were dressed in very tasteful black. James was suddenly sure that if Zane,
his American friend, were present, he'd make some comment about how
brave it was for them to be out in the daylight, or how they managed to
comb their hair so nicely, not being able to see themselves in mirrors.
Needless to say, he was quite glad Zane wasn't present.
"Perhaps," the man went on, "you'd be kind enough to direct me to
your father, James. My name is—"
"Draco?"
James glanced aside and saw his mum approaching slowly. She looked
at the newcomer with a mixture of disbelief and caution.
"Ginny," the man said. There was a long, uncomfortable pause, and
then the dark-haired woman spoke.
"We're very sorry for your loss, Mrs. Potter." She tried to smile, but it
was a rather strained attempt.
"Does Harry know you're…," Ginny asked, still looking at the man.
"I think he does now," Draco said, raising his chin slightly and
glancing past Ginny.
Harry stepped next to his wife and looked the pale man up and down.
"It's good to see you, Draco."
Draco nodded slowly, not quite making eye contact with Harry. "Yes, it
has been quite a long time. When we heard about Mr. Weasley's passing, I
thought it would be… appropriate… for us to offer our condolences."
James recognized the pale man now, even though he'd never seen him
in person. He compared this grown man to the few pictures he'd seen of the
young Draco Malfoy. The eyes were the same, and so was the white-blonde
hair combed back from the temples. There was still the trace of a sneer

there too, just like in the old school photos, but as James looked, he thought
the sneer was no longer particularly mean, or even conscious. Draco had
simply been doing it for so long that it was now just part of the topography
of his face.
Harry studied Draco for a long moment, and then smiled. James
recognized it as his dad's polite smile.
"Thank you, Draco. Ginny and I appreciate it. We really do. This must
be your wife?"
Draco put an arm around the thin woman's waist. "Of course, I
apologize. This is Astoria."
Harry bowed and Ginny shook the woman's hand lightly.
Ginny brightened and said, "Would you like to come up to the house
for some refreshments?"
Astoria half turned to Draco, raising her eyebrows.
"I'll have some of whatever he's having," Draco said, glancing toward
James and smiling a small, crooked smile. "Thank you, darling."
Ginny led the way between the tables and Astoria followed, glancing
back once toward Harry and Draco.
"So how are things at Gringotts, Draco?" Harry asked, making no
effort to lead the pale man into the throng gathered near the house. "I
understand humans are almost unheard of in the bank offices, and yet here
you are, vice chairman of something or other, or so I've heard. We'd have
had a good laugh back in our school days if someone had told us you'd end
up a big wheel at the wizarding bank of England."
"Back in our school days," Draco said quietly, still not looking directly
at Harry, "we'd have had a good laugh if someone had told us we'd someday
stand in the same yard without pointing wands at each other."

Harry's smile faded. "Yes," he admitted in a lower voice. "There is
that."
There was a long pause. James could hear the babble of subdued
voices closer to the house and the twittering of birds in the orchard. He
glanced over toward Rose, who was also watching the scene with rapt
interest. She raised her eyebrows and shook her head minutely.
"You know," Draco said in a different tone of voice, laughing a little
humorlessly, "to tell you the truth, there isn't a single thing about the way
life looks today that I would have predicted during our last years at
Hogwarts."
Harry's smile had gone entirely. He stood and watched the pale man,
his eyes unreadable.
"We are all taught things, growing up," Draco went on. "And rarely do
we have the sheer audacity to question them. We grow to take the shape of
whatever our families define for us. The weight of generations of belief
presses down, and makes us in their image. And most of the time that is a
good thing." Draco finally looked Harry in the eye, and for the first time
since his arrival, the sneer was gone from his face. "Most of the time, it
really is a good thing, Harry. But sometimes we grow up, time passes, and
long, long after any hope of rejecting those defining beliefs, we look back.
And we wonder."
James looked from Draco to his dad. His dad's face was still
unreadable. After a long moment, Harry glanced back toward the house and
sighed.
"Look, Draco, whatever you have to say, whatever you think needs to
happen here…"
Draco shook his head. "Nothing needs to happen here. I didn't come
here to ask your forgiveness, Harry. I just came to tell you and your family
that I am sorry for your loss. Despite what you might expect, I know Arthur

Weasley was a strong man. He was an honorable man. My father wouldn't
tend to agree with me, but it's like I said. We get older. Some of us look
back, and wonder."
Harry nodded slightly. "Thank you, Draco."
Draco took a step closer to Harry. "There was one other reason I came
today though. I think I should admit that to you. I came to prove something
to myself."
Harry didn't blink. "What were you hoping to prove?"
Draco smiled a little, not taking his eyes from Harry's. "I wanted to
prove to myself that I could come and speak to you. And more importantly,
that you'd hear me."
Draco extended his right hand. Without looking down, Harry slowly
shook it. James could hardly believe what he was seeing, knowing the
history of these two men. It was hardly a tearful reconciliation, and James
had the distinct impression that if Draco knew anyone in his family could
see it, he'd never have done it. But it was amazing, nonetheless. The
handshake was over in seconds, and less than five minutes later, both Draco
and Astoria had left, driving away in their very large, very black
automobile. But the image of that handshake, somehow both daring and
vulnerable, tenuous as a soap bubble, stuck in James' mind for a long time.

Most of the immediate family stayed over that night at the Burrow, and
James felt a particular sadness in knowing it might be the last time the
family gathered in the old home. A palpable sense of loss and coldness

filled the rooms despite the bustle of evening activity. It was almost as if
everyone was mentally throwing dustcovers over the furniture, taking down
the pictures, and dividing up the dishes. James felt a vague, aimless anger
about it. It was bad enough that Granddad had died. Now it seemed that the
Burrow was dying too. Nothing felt normal or comfortable. Even the
bedroom he'd shared with Albus and Lily for so many years seemed cold
and empty. It had never once crossed his mind that this room might
someday belong to someone else, someone he didn't know. Worse, what if
the new owners simply tore down the house and built a new one? What if
they were Muggles, who wouldn't know how to maintain such a place? He
couldn't bear the thought. Angrily, he slammed the door and began to put on
his pyjamas.
"Hrmm!" Lily muttered, rolling over in her bed and covering her head
with a pillow.
"Never mind us," Albus griped from the big bed in the corner. "We're
just trying to sleep. Let us know if we're bothering you."
"Sorry," James muttered, plopping onto the bed and kicking off his
shoes.
Albus sat up and stared at the door of the room. James glanced aside to
where Albus was looking. They'd seen it a thousand times before: the inside
of the door was covered with worn etchings and carved words. This room
had belonged to many people throughout the years, and most of them had
made some sort of mark on that door, to Grandma Weasley's constant
annoyance. Still, she'd made no effort to fix the door, which wouldn't have
been all that difficult for a witch. James thought he knew why. In the very
center of the door, much older than the rest of the carvings, was a series of
carven hash-marks, the kind used to mark off days. Above the hash-marks
were the words 'Days To Freedom!' Below the last set of hash-marks, which
was very large, the same hand had scrawled 'Fred And George To
HOGWARTS And BEYOND! Long Live Fred And George!'
"You think Grandma will really sell the place?" James asked, still
gazing at the carvings on the door.

Albus didn't answer. After a moment, he rolled over, facing the wall
and pulling most of the covers with him.
James stripped off his shirt and grabbed his pyjama top. He slid to the
floor and padded toward the bathroom door to brush his teeth.
The bathroom was shared by three bedrooms and the third-floor
hallway. Lucy, Percy's daughter, was sitting on the edge of the ancient clawfoot tub, studiously brushing her glossy black hair.
"Hi, James," she said, glancing up briefly.
"Hi, Lucy."
"It's good to see you. I missed everybody this summer," Lucy said,
drawing the brush over a lock of her hair. "Daddy says we'll be able to
spend more time at home next year. I was pretty happy about that until
today. I mean, by next year…"
James nodded. "Yeah."
"Did you like your first year of school?" Lucy asked, looking up. "Are
you looking forward to going back?"
James nodded and picked up the glass that stood on the side of the
sink. It was packed with the family's toothbrushes. He grimaced and turned
the glass, trying to find his own.
"I can't wait to start school," Lucy said, returning to her brushing.
"Daddy says I should enjoy being free while I can, but it doesn't feel free
living with him and Mummy in hotel rooms for weeks at a time. Mummy
says it's best for us to travel with him on all his international trips, so we
can all stay together as a family. She likes all the travelling though. She's
always dragging Molly and me out to some historical thing or other, telling
us to smile while she takes pictures of us in front of this statue or that rock
that some famous person from some great battle stood on or something. I

write lots of letters, but not that many people write back, or at least not as
often as I'd like."
She glanced meaningfully at James. He saw her in the mirror as he
brushed his teeth.
"What's wrong with Albus?" Lucy asked, standing and putting away
her brush.
James rinsed his toothbrush. "What do you mean?"
"He was awfully quiet tonight. It's not like him."
"Well, I guess everybody is a little quieter than usual," James replied.
He glanced aside at Lucy and smiled crookedly. "Well, almost everybody."
She bumped him playfully as she passed him. At the door, she stopped
and looked over her shoulder.
"We'll probably be gone when you get up in the morning," she said
simply. "We have to get back to Denmark first thing, Daddy says."
"Oh," James said. "Well, happy travels, Lucy. Sorry about all that.
Uncle Percy's quite the man at the Ministry, according to Dad. Things won't
always be like this, don't you think?"
Lucy smiled. "It won't much matter by next year, will it? I'll be with
you, Albus, Louis, Rose, and Hugo at Hogwarts. Won't that be fun?"
James nodded. There was something rather disquieting about talking to
Cousin Lucy. It wasn't that he didn't love her. In many ways, he liked her
better than many of his other cousins, particularly Louis. She was just so
different. It made sense that she would be different, since she'd been
adopted by Uncle Percy and Aunt Audrey back when they believed they
couldn't have kids of their own. Talking to Lucy, much like talking to Luna
Lovegood, was a rather literal affair. She was extremely, almost eerily,

intelligent, but unlike most people, Lucy didn't much joke or tease. She
always said exactly what she was thinking.
"Write me a letter or two this year, won't you James?" she said, her
black eyes serious. "Tell me how school is going. Make me laugh. You're
good at that."
James nodded again. "OK, Lucy. I will. I promise."
Gently, Lucy closed the door to the bedroom she shared with her sister.
James turned toward the door to his own bedroom when a movement
caught his eye. He stopped and glanced aside, following the motion. It had
been in the hall adjacent. The door was slightly open, but the hallway
beyond was dark. Someone was probably waiting outside for him to finish.
He pushed the door open and leaned out.
"I'm done," he announced. "Bathroom's all yours."
The hallway was empty. James looked in both directions. The stairs at
the end of the hall were notoriously creaky; he'd surely have heard someone
on them. He frowned, and was about to turn away when the movement
came again. It flickered in the moonbeams cast by the landing's large
window. A shadow danced for a moment and then went still.
James stepped out of the bathroom, keeping his eyes on the pale
window shape cast across the floor and wall. He could no longer see
whatever had moved. He took a few steps toward the landing and his foot
creaked on a floorboard. At the sound, a shadow leapt in the moon-glow. It
scampered over the shape of the window like some kind of lizard, but with
much longer, many-jointed arms and legs. There was a suggestion of a large
head and pointy ears, and then, suddenly, the shape was gone.
James stopped in the hall, the hairs on his arms prickling. The shadow
had made a noise as it moved, like dead leaves blowing on a stone. As
James strained his ears, he could still hear it. A faint scuttling came from
the stairs below the landing. Without thinking, he followed.

As always, the stairs were unbearably creaky. James had completely
lost the sound by the time he reached the main floor. The Weasley family
clock ticked to itself in the darkness of the parlor as he crept through,
heading for the kitchen. One candle guttered in a volcano of wax on the
windowsill. Moonlight played across the room, reflected from the dozens of
pots and pans that hung over the counter. James stopped and cocked his
head, listening.
The scuttling came again, and he saw it. The tiny shadow flickered and
jumped over the fronts of the cabinets, flashing in and out of the moonlight.
It seemed to scamper up the pantry. James glanced around quickly, trying to
locate the figure that was casting the shadow, but he couldn't find it.
The shadow stopped in a corner of the ceiling and seemed to look
down at James for a moment. The tiny shape looked a little bit like a houseelf except for the proportions and the unusual number of joints in the arms
and legs. Then it leapt again, out of the shadow. James lunged in the
creature's direction, sensing the thing was heading for the back door. To his
surprise, the back door was wide open.
James jumped out into the cooling night air. He looked around wildly,
straining his ears for the tiny, scuttling sound. There was no sign of the tiny
shape.
"Good evening, James," a voice from behind him said, and he nearly
barked in surprise. He spun around and saw his dad seated on the woodpile,
a small glass in his hand. Harry laughed.
"Sorry, son. I didn't mean to startle you. What are you so wound up
about?"
James looked around again, his brow furrowed. "I thought… I thought
I saw something."
Harry glanced around as well. "Well, there's a lot of somethings to be
seen in this house, you know. There's the ghoul in the attic, and the garden

gnomes. They usually stay out of the house, but there are always a few
brave ones that'll sneak in at night and nick a turnip or two. They think
harvesting the vegetables is stealing from them, so they get a little
mercenary about it sometimes."
James padded over to the woodpile and climbed up next to his dad.
"What are you drinking?" he asked, peering at his father's glass.
Harry laughed again, quietly. "It's more a question of what I'm not
drinking. It's Firewhisky. Never got much of a taste for the stuff, but
tradition's tradition."
"What's the tradition?"
Harry sighed. "It's just a way to remember. A sip to commemorate
your grandfather and all he meant to us. I did this with Grandfather and
George on the night we buried your Uncle Fred."
James was silent for a while. He looked out over the yard and the dark
orchard. Just below the crest of the hill, the peak of the garage could be
seen in the moonlight. Crickets chirred their constant summer song.
"I'm glad to have you out here with me, James," Harry said.
James glanced up at him. "Why didn't you come and get me, then?"
Harry's shoulders lifted once. "I didn't know I wanted you here until
you appeared."
James leaned back against the smooth stone of the house's foundation.
It was pleasantly cool after the warmth of the day. The sky was unusually
clear. The misty band of the Milky Way stretched like an arm across the
sky, reaching down toward the glow of the village beyond the orchard.
"Your granddad was like a father to me, you know," Harry said. "I was
just sitting here thinking about that. I used to call him that all the time, of

course, but I never really thought about it. I never realized how true it was. I
guess I didn't need to, until now."
James looked up at the moon. "Well, it would make sense. I mean,
your own dad died when you were just a baby. You never even knew him."
Harry nodded. "And my Uncle Vernon… well, I wish I could say he
did his best to be a father to me, but you've heard enough about how things
were with them to know that's not true. Honestly, I never even knew what I
was missing. I just knew that things weren't the way they were supposed to
be."
"Until you married Mum and became an honorary Weasley?"
Harry smiled down at James and nodded. "I suppose."
"You suppose?"
The smile faded slowly from his dad's face. He looked away again, out
over the darkness of the yard.
"There was Sirius," Harry said. "He was the first father I ever knew.
Technically, he was my godfather, but I didn't care. He asked me to come
and live with him, to be family. But it didn't work out. He ended up on the
run from the Ministry, moving from place to place, always in hiding. Still,
he did his best. Bought me my Firebolt, which is still my favorite broom of
all time."
Harry stopped. He reached up and took off his glasses. James remained
silent.
"So I was just sitting here thinking about how Granddad is really the
third father I've lost, that I'm back to where I started. If you want to know
the truth, son, I was sitting here feeling sorry for myself. Sirius was killed
before we had the chance to take even a single family picture to remember
him by. Sometimes, I can barely remember what he looked like, except for
in his wanted poster. But the hole he left in my heart has never been filled. I

tried to fill it with my old Headmaster Dumbledore for a while, but then he
was killed, too. Granddad made me forget for a long, long time, but now,
even he's gone. I mean, honestly, this should be a bit easier for me. I've
had… I've had practice. And yet, if you want to know the truth, I think your
mum is handling it even better than me. I'm angry, James. I want the people
back that I've lost. I can't seem to just move on like the rest. Just now, I was
sitting here thinking that Granddad was just one too many. I didn't want to
accept it anymore. But what could I do? There's no way to bring them back,
and wishing for it just makes us bitter. I was thinking all those things, and
then do you know what happened?"
James looked up at his dad again, his brow furrowed. "What?"
Harry smiled slowly. "You jumped out that door like a jack-in-the-box
and scared me so that I nearly dropped my glass."
James smiled back, and then laughed. "So when you startled me, you
were just getting back at me, eh?"
"Perhaps," Harry admitted, still smiling. "But I realized something in
that moment, and that was why I was glad you came out here, that you sat
down with me. I remembered that I have another chance at the father and
child relationship, but from the other side. I have you, and Albus, and Lily. I
can try my best to give you three what I missed for so much of my life. And
you know what's really magical? When I do, I get a little of it back, like a
reflection, from all three of you."
James looked hard at his dad, frowning a little. He thought he
understood, but only very dimly. Finally, he looked down at the glass in his
dad's hand.
"So are you going to drink that?"
Harry lowered his eyes to the glass of Firewhisky, and then raised it.
"You know, son," he said, examining the moon through the amber liquid, "I
think it's time to start some new traditions. Don't you think?" He held the
glass a little higher, at arm's length.

"This is for you, Arthur," he said firmly. "For the father you were to all
of us, not the least of which to me. And for you, Dumbledore, for doing
your formidable best right to the end… and for my real dad, James the First,
who I never knew but have always loved…"
James stared at the glass in his dad's hand as Harry paused. Finally, in
a softer voice, he finished:
"And for you, Sirius Black, wherever you are. I miss you. I miss you
all."
Almost casually, Harry flung the Firewhisky from the glass. It made an
arc in the moonlight, sparkling and spreading, and vanished into the
dimness of the yard. Harry drew a deep breath and sighed, shuddering a
little as he let it out. He leaned back and put his arm around his son. They
sat that way for some time, watching the moon and listening to the crickets
in the orchard. Eventually, James drifted to sleep. His dad carried him to
bed.

2. THE BORLEY
"Y ou'll be fine, James," Ginny said as she backed the car carefully into a
slot next to the footpath. "It doesn't hurt, you know. Your dad's been
wearing them since he was six. You're lucky you
went this long without needing them."
James fumed in the front seat. Behind him, Lily whined for the tenth
time, "I want to wear glasses too!"
Ginny blew the hair out of her face and jammed the shifter into 'Park'.
"Lily, if you're fortunate, you'll never have to wear anything other than
sunglasses, but those you can wear all you want, love."
"I don't want to wear sunglasses," Lily pouted. "I want real glasses,
like James. Why does he get real glasses?"

"My eyes aren't that bad," James insisted, not moving to get out of the
car. "I can read my school books just fine. I don't see why—"
"They aren't that bad yet," Ginny said firmly. "These are corrective
lenses. Hopefully, they'll keep your eyesight from getting any worse. Why
are you being so difficult about this?"
James scowled. "I just don't want to wear them. I'll look like a sodding
idiot."
"Don't say that word," Ginny said automatically. "Besides, they don't
make your father look like an idiot. Now come on. Lily, you stay here with
Kreacher and have a little snack, OK? I'll be able to see you from the
window and I'll be back out in just a minute. You'll keep an eye out, won't
you, Kreacher?"
In the backseat, Kreacher squirmed in his bright blue child seat. "It'd
be an easier task if Kreacher wasn't imprisoned in this Muggle torture
device, Mistress, but as you wish."
"We've been through this, Kreacher. Regardless of what Muggles think
they see when they look at you, children are required to ride in a safety seat.
It's bad enough that you insist on wearing nothing but a tea towel. People
aren't accustomed to seeing a five-year-old in a nappy."
"It's the best disguise poor Kreacher can manage, Mistress," he
croaked morosely. "Kreacher has never been accustomed to the society of
Muggles, but Kreacher does his best with what small magic he has at his
disposal."
Ginny rolled her eyes as she climbed out of the car. "Just tap the horn
if you need anything, all right? Your 'small magic' can manage that, I'm
fairly certain."
Ginny led James toward the office.

"Why do we have to go to a Muggle eye doctor anyway?" James
complained quietly. "Aren't there magical eye doctors with, like, invisible
glasses? Or spells that magically fix your eyes?"
Ginny smiled. "Not everything has a magical solution, James. A
Muggle eye doctor is as good as a magical one, and this one's more
convenient than Diagon Alley. You've already been here for your exam. I
don't see what you're so afraid of."
"I'm not afraid," James said disgustedly as they entered the lobby of
the office. He looked around at the tiny waiting area. It was exactly the
same as the last time he'd been there, right down to the number of fish in the
grimy aquarium and the magazines on the end table.
"James Potter," Ginny told the fat woman behind the glass partition.
"We have a two o'clock appointment with Doctor Prendergast."
James plopped into the same chair he'd sat in the last time he'd been
there. He kicked his heel on the thin carpet, grumbling to himself.
A few minutes later, Dr. Prendergast emerged, smiling, skinny, and
red-cheeked. He tucked his own glasses into a pocket of his white coat.
"Do come back, James," he said jovially. "Your mother can come too if
she likes."
Ginny glanced at James. "Do you want me to? I can go get Lily and
bring her back with us."
He sighed and stood up. "No. Go ahead and check on her. Kreacher's
probably trying to feed her caviare for a snack again."
Ginny grinned at Dr. Prendergast and then threw a quick warning look
at James. "The glasses are already paid for, James. Just come out to the car
once you're done with the doctor, all right?"

"Is Kreacher some sort of family pet?" Dr. Prendergast asked James as
he led him into the examination room.
"He's my half-brother," James replied. "He lives in the basement. We
feed him a bucket of fish heads twice a week."
Dr. Prendergast blinked at James, his smile growing somewhat brittle.
"That's very, ahem, amusing, James. What an interesting imagination."
James sat on the edge of the examination chair as the doctor put on his
own glasses and rummaged in a cabinet. He produced a box and opened it
on the table.
"Here we are," he said happily, extracting a pair of black eyeglasses.
To James, they looked three times wider than his head. He slumped.
"Let me just help you get them on and we'll test the prescription. Won't
take a minute."
He held them out to James, and then slipped them onto his head. James
closed his eyes as the glasses settled onto his ears. When he opened them
again, the world looked very slightly smaller and warped a bit around the
edges. He glanced around, trying to get used to the feeling.
"There!" the doctor said brightly. "And how does that feel?"
James sighed again. "All right, I guess. It's a little weird."
"That's perfectly natural. You'll get used to them in no time at all."
James had already determined that he would not let that happen. He
intended to wear the dreaded glasses for his mum to see for the next two
days, and then to stick them in his trunk the moment he got on the
Hogwarts Express. He didn't really need them anyway. He was sure of it.
Dr. Prendergast sat James on a stool in the corner of the examination

room and turned him toward the eye chart on the opposite wall. James
covered one eye at a time and read down the chart in a dejected monotone.
The doctor nodded happily, removed his own glasses again and opened the
blinds of the small room, letting in the afternoon sunlight.
"That's very good, James," he said, opening the examination room
door. "We're mostly done. Just let me schedule your follow-up appointment
and you can be off."
When James was alone in the room, he stood up and approached the
mirror next to the window. The glasses weren't really that bad, he thought,
but they were bad enough. They felt heavy and clunky on his face. He
scowled and took them off.
In the mirror, something moved behind his reflection. James glanced
up, and then turned around. The sunlight poured into the room, brightening
it considerably. James saw his own shadow on the wall, projected onto a
large poster showing a diagram of an eyeball. Another shadow scampered
past his. James recognized it immediately as the same shape he'd seen a few
nights earlier in the hallway at the Burrow. Without thinking, he reached for
his wand in his back pocket, but of course it wasn't there. He wasn't yet
allowed to do any magic out of school, and his mum forbade him from
carrying it when they were out in the Muggle world.
The shadowy shape shimmied up the wall and leapt. James widened
his eyes, surprised and bewildered, as the shadow seemed to come off the
wall, leaping out of the beam of sunlight. It made a slightly darker shape in
the room, almost invisible. The shadow wasn't being cast by the creature;
somehow, the creature was its shadow. It landed on the small table next to
the examination chair. To James' shock, it began to pick up some of Doctor
Prendergast's tools and fling them around the room. They clattered and
bounced off the walls. James jammed his glasses into the pocket of his jeans
and jumped to catch some of the flying tools.
"Stop!" he whispered harshly at the tiny shadow imp. "What are you
doing? You're going to get me into trouble!"

James ducked beneath the examination chair, scooping up the scattered
tools. Meanwhile, having cleared off the table, the shadow imp jumped to
the stool and scampered up the wall. It reached the cabinet and darted
behind a row of thick books. One by one, the books began to pop off the
shelf. James dumped the tools onto the table with one hand and lunged to
catch the first few books with the other. Unable to catch them all, James
bent to scoop them off the floor. A particularly large volume struck him in
the back of the head, making him drop the books he'd already collected.
Angrily, he spun on his heels, looking for the creature, meaning to grab it if
he could. It jumped from the bookshelf to the wall, snagging a corner of the
poster. The poster popped free and fell like a sail, covering James' head. He
struggled out from under it and lunged at the creature. It leapt to the ceiling
fan and sat perched on one of the slowly revolving blades. It seemed to be
taunting James.
"This is a Muggle place!" James hissed at the creature. "But I'm a
wizard! You can thank your lucky stars I don't have my wand with me!"
The creature recoiled at that, as if it had understood. It spun and
jumped toward the window. James, still partly caught under the fallen
poster, threw himself over the examination chair, reaching for the creature.
He landed hard on the chair, which moved. It rolled on its casters, scooting
across the floor and striking the wall below the window just as the door
opened.
James looked up into the face of Dr. Prendergast, whose eyes widened.
"Look," James said quickly, clambering off the examination chair, "I
don't know what it was, but it wasn't me! I didn't do any magic, I didn't
knock all your books down, or tear your poster off the wall, or make any of
this mess. All of this was done by some weird little shadow monster. You
probably don't believe in shadow monsters, and that's fine, because I myself
didn't even know they existed until now, so that's all right, but we'll
probably all end up Obliviated anyway, so who really cares, right?"
Dr. Prendergast's gaze remained locked on James. His eyes looked

rather magnified behind his glasses. James took a moment to glance around
at the mess that had been made of the examination room. To his great
surprise, there wasn't any mess. The books sat neatly on their shelves. The
poster hung on the wall, perfectly intact. The eye examination tools lay
neatly on a cloth on the table in the corner.
"Ah, ah hah, hah!" Dr. Prendergast laughed, smiling a little nervously.
"This is like the story about your brother eating fish heads out of a bucket, I
see. Like I said before, Mr. Potter, what a very, er, interesting imagination.
Here is your reminder for your next appointment. I believe your mother is,
ahem, waiting for you outside."

On the morning of the first of September, James was feeling unusually
surly. The weather seemed to match his mood, having turned cool and
foggy, covering the city like a wet blanket. James stared through his
reflection in the car window as the family wove through the city toward
King's Cross station. He'd made an attempt to tell his mum about the weird
shadow creature he'd seen twice now, but she had been irritable and harried
and had told him to save the inexplicable imaginary creatures for Luna
Lovegood, who rather specialized in them. James had determined to ask
Luna about it the next time he saw her, but for now, preparing for his return
to Hogwarts and managing his strangely churlish brother, Albus, were
enough to keep him busy. Soon enough, he'd put the shadow imp out of his
mind.
Things had begun badly that morning. James, excited about going back
to school, had his trunk packed and ready, waiting beside the front door of
the Potter family home. When he tromped back upstairs to collect his owl,

Nobby, Albus was still sitting on the bed in his room, tying his shoes. His
trunk sat open next to the desk, half-packed.
"Come on, Al," James said, setting Nobby's cage on the desk. "Dad's
already pulling the car around front. If we don't get packed and on the road
we'll be late."
Albus made no effort to hurry. He slumped off his bed and stalked out
of the room. James watched him go, rolled his eyes, and began piling Albus'
school books into the trunk. Albus' new snowy owl, who was as yet
unnamed, sat in her cage next to Nobby's, clicking her beak nervously.
"At least you don't have anything to pack," he griped to the owls. "Or a
troublesome little brother."
"Albus," Ginny's voice called from downstairs, "James, it's time to
go."
James grabbed Albus' new robes and a handful of clothes from the
closet, stuffed them into the trunk, and slammed the lid. If Albus got to
Hogwarts without a clean pair of underpants, it was his own fault. James
grabbed the handle and lugged the trunk toward the door, meeting Albus as
he came back.
"Is that my trunk?" Albus demanded.
James pulled the trunk past him, into the hallway. "Just get the owls,
will you? We're going to be late."
"I wasn't done packing!"
"Well, I guess you're done now, aren't you?" James said, feeling
suddenly angry. "Dad and Mum are waiting. What, did you decide you don't
want to go to school after all?"
Without answering, Albus collected the owls' cages rather noisily and
followed James down to the car.

As the family arrived at King's Cross station, James tried to lighten the
mood.
"Just think, Al, by tonight, you'll be all settled in, sitting in front of the
giant snake's head fireplace and drinking a flagon of Butterbeer with your
new snakey mates."
Albus scowled and opened the car door, stepping out into the fog of the
parking structure. James followed.
"Can I push a trolley at least?" Lily asked, displaying her best pout.
"I'm sorry, Lily," Harry said, piling the trunks and owl cages onto two
trolleys. "They're rather heavy, and we're in a hurry. You'll be seeing Hugo
in a few minutes, though. If all goes well, Aunt Hermione and Uncle Ron
will be joining us for lunch as soon as the train leaves. Won't that be nice?"
"I don't want lunch," Lily said petulantly.
The family entered the large doors of the station and threaded through
the commuters, attracting some curious stares as the owls hooted and
fluttered their wings. Lily followed her parents, whining idly about her
desire to go to Hogwarts with her brothers this year instead of two years
from now.
"I've been in the Slytherin common room," James said to Albus as they
approached the platform. "Ralph showed me. Zane's even been in the girls'
sleeping quarters. It's kind of like a five star hotel in Middle Ages
Transylvania, if you know what I mean. You'll love it."
Albus turned to look at James. "I won't! I won't be in Slytherin!"
"Give it a rest, James," Ginny admonished.
"I only said he might be," James said defensively, grinning at Albus.
"There's nothing wrong with that. He might be in Slyth—"

He saw his mum's warning expression and fell silent. Feeling a little
peeved, he took the trolley from her, glanced over his shoulder at Albus,
and then pushed forward, running toward the partition. Just as it had last
year, the partition seemed to dissolve. He flashed through it and pulled the
trolley to a stop on platform nine and three-quarters. It was as crowded as it
had been the last time he'd been there, although the mingled fog and steam
made it hard to see everyone. Out of the dense mist, James could hear the
chug and hiss of the Hogwarts Express, and for the first time all morning,
he felt a bit better. Without waiting for the rest of the family, he pushed his
trolley through the crowd toward the sound of the train.
"James!" a voice called out. James glanced around and saw his Cousin
Lucy standing next to Uncle Percy, who was apparently lost in animated
conversation with a man in a pinstriped cloak. Percy's wife, Audrey, stood
nearby, holding Lucy's sister's hand and looking over a schedule of
departures.
"Hi, Lucy," James said, pushing the trolley over to her. "I didn't expect
to see you here. What's going on?"
"We're on our way back already," she shrugged. "Daddy got a call.
There was some sort of magical disturbance in Wandsworth and the
Ministry needs him back. At least we get to go home for awhile. Where's
Albus?"
James gestured back the way he'd come. "Albus is still in a snit. He's
been grumpy ever since the Burrow."
Lucy nodded understandingly but said nothing.
"Well, I better get my trunk on board," James said. "We're already late.
See you, Lucy."
"Bye, James," Lucy replied, then added. "Keep an eye on Albus, all
right?"

James felt a tiny twinge of guilt at that. He nodded. "Sure, Lucy. I'm
his big brother."
Lucy smiled and waved. James turned and ran toward the train,
pushing his trolley. As he met the porter, he saw Teddy Lupin moving
through the fog with Victoire at his side, lost in hushed conversation.
Satisfied that his things would be loaded safely onto the train, James trotted
to catch up to them.
"Hey, Ted, Victoire," he called.
They stopped near the station, but Victoire continued talking, her head
close to Ted's.
"It's time," she said, her face serious. "I do not wish to spend the year
away at school with this secret between us."
"It isn't between us, Vic," Ted said reasonably. "You know your parents
aren't ready to know about us. Your mum already thinks I'm a bum waiting
to happen. Give me some time to arrange things in Hogsmeade. Once I've
proven I'm serious…"
"To whom do you need to prove yourself?" Victoire asked, stepping
back and placing her fists on her hips. "My parents, or yourself?"
Ted rolled his eyes. He glanced at James. "This is what it's like dating
a girl whose family I've known all my life," he said. "They know me too
well for my charms to work on them."
"Your charms work just fine," Victoire sniffed. "In fact, if it wasn't for
your charms, you wouldn't even have this problem."
"Sorry to interrupt," James said, raising his hands, palms out. "I just
wanted to say hello. I'll just fade away into the mist again."
"Wait a minute," Ted said, his face growing thoughtful. "I've got an

idea."
Suddenly, he grabbed Victoire and hugged her to him. She resisted for
a moment, but then he kissed her, and she relaxed. Slowly, she dropped the
handbag she was carrying and wrapped her arms around Ted's neck. James
took a step backwards and looked around nervously.
"Er, like I said—" he began but stopped as Ted held up a finger, still
kissing Victoire. Finally, he broke away and looked aside at James, smiling
crookedly.
"You saw that, right?" he asked.
"I don't think I saw anything but that," James replied uncomfortably.
"Good. Now do me a favor."
Victoire looked at Ted, her arms still around his neck. "Teddy, no…"
Ted's smile didn't waver. "Go tell everybody what you saw."
"What?" James blinked.
"Just tell them. Say I came to see Victoire off, and you saw us
snogging right here on the platform. Say you interrupted us and I told you
to shove off. It's the juiciest bit of gossip on the platform this morning, and
you get to be the one to share it. It'll get the word out about us and we won't
even have to say a thing," he turned back to Victoire. "Happy?"
She tilted her head haughtily at him but smiled. "You're a rogue," she
replied.
Ted shrugged. "I'm simply good at coming up with reasons to kiss you.
So what do you think, James? Are you up to the task?"
James grinned. "I learned how to lie from Zane. I'll make it as juicy as
possible."

"Excellent," Ted replied. "And just to make it as realistic as possible,"
he made his face stern and looked at James, "shove off, will you? I'm busy."
With that, he kissed Victoire again. She grinned and giggled, pushing
away from him playfully. James turned on his heels and trotted back into
the crowd. After a moment, he saw his family gathered with Uncle Ron and
Aunt Hermione near the train. They were all looking back toward the
station. James followed the direction of their gaze and saw Draco Malfoy
standing with his wife and son near the partition. Draco nodded curtly in
their direction, and then turned to his son. The son had the same sharp
features and white-blonde hair. He glanced toward James, seeming to
recognize him. After a moment, the boy looked away again, as if bored.
James remembered the news he was supposed to share. He ran toward
his family, dodging and weaving through the crowd. As he approached, he
heard Uncle Ron say to Rose in a pointed voice, "Don't get too friendly
with him though, Rosie. Granddad Weasley would never forgive you if you
married a pureblood." James was glad to interrupt the uncomfortable pause
that followed.
"Hey!" he yelled as he approached. Rose saw him first and smiled. The
rest of the family turned curiously. "Teddy's back there. Just seen him. And
guess what he's doing? Snogging Victoire!"
The adults looked down at James rather blankly. James raised his
eyebrows, exasperated at their lack of response. "Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin!
Snogging our Victoire! Our cousin! And I asked him what he was doing—
"
"You interrupted them?" Ginny said incredulously. "You are so like
Ron…"
James plowed on, committed to telling it like Ted asked. "—and he
said he'd come to see her off! And then he told me to go away! He's
snogging her!"

Lily spoke up, "Oh, it would be lovely if they got married."
James rolled his eyes, ignoring the rest of the conversation. Well, at
least he'd succeeded in getting the word out. Ted would be satisfied. After a
moment, James heard his dad saying, "Why don't we just invite him to
come live with us and have done with it?"
"Yeah!" James agreed instantly. "I don't mind sharing with Al. Teddy
could have my room!"
"No," Harry interjected. "You and Al will share a room only when I
want the house demolished." He checked his watch, and smiled. "It's nearly
eleven. You'd better get on board."
James hugged his mum and dad and a minute later climbed aboard the
train, leaving the noise and steam behind him. He clumped into the nearest
compartment with Rose right behind him. She pushed the window open and
leaned out to wave. James joined her and glanced out. Albus was still on the
platform with their dad squatted next to him. James remembered Harry
doing the same thing with him last year, and didn't doubt that Albus and he
were having a very similar conversation. Ginny saw James and waved at
him. Lily skulked nearby, loosely holding her mum's free hand.
Albus disengaged from his dad, hugged his mum, and then clambered
onto the train. A moment later, he entered the compartment with James and
Rose. There was a commotion behind them as several other students
crowded into the compartment, leaning toward the open window, chattering
excitedly.
"Why are they all staring?" Albus asked as he and Rose turned.
On the platform, Ron shrugged and called up, "Don't let it worry you.
It's me. I'm extremely famous."
Albus smiled, and then laughed a little. Rose chuckled at her father.
With a loud rattle and a jerk, the train began to move. James couldn't help

noticing that his brother seemed to feel a little bit better. Albus smiled,
allowing some excitement to show on his face as he waved. Alongside the
train, their father walked, one hand raised and a wistful smile on his face.
The train slowly gathered speed and James watched his parents get smaller
and smaller on the platform. Rose leaned out the window and waved
heartily at Ron and Hermione, then pulled herself in with a sigh, drawing
the window shut.
"Well," she said, plopping onto the seat across from James, "we're
off!"
James nodded. Albus watched out the window until the platform was
out of sight, and then joined Rose on the seat. He leaned back and watched
the window as London began to stream past.
"So what do you think, Al?" James asked, remembering Lucy's
admonition on the platform. "Looking forward to your first year?"
Albus looked at James for a long moment, and then sighed hugely. "I'd
be looking forward to it a lot more if I knew you'd packed me some socks."
James blinked, smiling a little, and kicked his brother's foot. "You
never change them anyway. I didn't think you'd need any more than what's
on your feet already."
"That's disgusting," Rose announced.
There was a loud knock on the compartment door and the three looked
up.
Ralph leaned in, his face flushed and smiling. "Hi, everybody. Room
for one more?"

"So Zane is going to Alma Aleron this year?" Rose asked, feigning
disinterest.
"You knew he was ever since he visited with his parents last July,"
Albus said.
"Well, he wasn't completely sure then, was he? He said there was a
chance his father might get his contract extended."
"No," Albus insisted. "He said even if that happened, he'd probably
end up going back to the States with his sister and mum. You're just sweet
on him and can't help thinking that one bat of your eyes should have been
enough to get him to climb mountains and forge mighty rivers to be at
Hogwarts with you this year."
Rose rolled her eyes theatrically. "That's patently ridiculous. I barely
know him, and what I do know of him, I find completely insufferable."
"Insufferable enough to try to make the Draught of Enamor?" Albus
grinned.
Rose whipped her head around and gaped at Albus. "I never…!"
Albus shrugged, still grinning. "You need to learn to lock your diary
with more than the silly little Forget-me-knot Charm that came with it. You
of all people should know how easy those are to jinx open."
"Why, you rat!" Rose cried, her voice rising so that it was nearly
inaudible. "If I knew how to perform any curses, I'd turn your head into a
marshmallow!"

"Is this what things are always like in your family?" Ralph asked
James, munching a licorice wand.
"Pretty much," James nodded. "It's a good thing Louis hasn't found us
yet. He really brings out the worst in Rose."
"This isn't her worst?"
James dug in his bag and produced his wand. Finally, now that he was
on the train, he was allowed to use it again. He was tempted to strike up a
game of Winkles and Augers with Ralph, but he knew that Ralph would
defeat him easily with his unorthodox green-tipped wand. James would've
liked to believe that Ralph's skills were only due to the fact that his wand
had once been a part of Merlin's magical staff, but he knew better. Ralph
was talented, and he probably didn't even know the limit of his own talents.
Being beat by Ralph at Winkles and Augers was particularly galling
because Ralph tended to apologize for it.
"It is a shame that Zane couldn't come back with us this year," James
said. "It's going to be a bit weird without him."
"Well, it was always a bit weird with him too," Ralph said. "So maybe
it'll all even out. Besides, we'll still get to see him. He says that the Alma
Alerons have some experimental new communication methods. He's going
to be on the testing team for them."
James nodded. "Sounds like old Chancellor Franklyn has been hard at
work since he left."
"I'll say," Ralph agreed. "Dad visited them over the summer and they
took him on a tour of the school and grounds. The whole campus is packed
into a single yard surrounded by a stone wall in some old neighborhood of
Philadelphia. You'd never even notice it if you walked past it. Talk about
unplotted space! They even have a Timelock!"

James furrowed his brow. "What's a Timelock?"
"Oh, it's totally cool," Ralph enthused. "It's the only way into the
school. It's kind of like an airlock. You know how when rockets connect to
a space station, they have this locked off chamber between them?"
James raised his eyebrows sardonically.
"Oh yeah," Ralph said, "I keep forgetting you were raised by wizards.
All right, an airlock is kind of a closed chamber between two places with
really different atmospheres. It has doors on both sides. When you go into
the airlock on your side, you bring your atmosphere in with you. Then the
doors lock and your atmosphere is swapped out for a new one. That's the
only way a spacewalker can get inside the breathable environment of a
space station."
James' expression didn't change.
"All right," Ralph said defensively, "so I grew up watching sciencefiction films. Not all of us were born with a silver wand in our mouths, you
know."
James laughed. "Go on, Ralphinator. So what's a Timelock?"
"Well, that's just it! It's an airlock for time! Not only is the Alma
Aleron campus hidden inside some magical stone wall that makes it seem
loads smaller than it is, it's hidden in time, too! You have to go in through
the Timelock to exchange your time for whatever time the campus is
occupying on any given day."
"That's impossible," Rose chimed in, lowering the book she'd been
reading. "Time travel is not only highly unstable, but extremely risky. The
Ministry has even outlawed Time-Turners because too many people were
fiddling around in the temporal fluxstream, making history all wonky."
"The 'temporal fluxstream'?" Ralph repeated, blinking.

"'Wonky'?" Albus grinned.
"Rose takes a little bit of getting used to," James said. "But she's the
person to go to if you need a cure for poison ivy."
"Or the occasional love potion," Albus added.
"It would've worked if I'd succeeded in getting him to drink it," Rose
pointed out primly. "And I was only testing it on him. I just find him
slightly less obnoxious than any of you."
"What kind of wand did you get, Rosie?" James asked, changing the
subject.
"Only my dad's allowed to call me that, Jameson," Rose replied,
reaching for her bag.
James smiled. "'Jameson' isn't even my real name."
"It's willow," Rose said, flourishing her wand daintily and holding it
up. "Eight inches, with a Pegasus feather core."
"What about yours, Albus?" Ralph asked, popping the last bit of
licorice wand into his mouth.
Albus' face changed a little and he shrugged. "It's a wand. Eight and a
half inches. It's made out of yew."
Ralph nodded. "So what's the core made of?"
Albus glanced aside, out the window, his face darkening. "What's your
wand core made of, Ralph?" he asked pointedly.
Ralph blinked. He reached into his bag and produced his wand. James
looked at it, remembering it well. It was at least a foot long, and thick as a
broomstick. The end was whittled to a dull point and painted lime green. It

looked as silly as always, and yet James knew, perhaps more than anyone,
what that wand was capable of in Ralph's hand. It had saved James' life at
least once.
"Well," Ralph admitted, "I used to think it had a yeti whisker core—"
"A yeti whisker?" Albus said, leaning forward and grinning.
"We've been through this," Rose sighed. "Nobody knows what's inside
Ralph's wand except maybe Merlin. And I'm sure not going to ask him. He
creeps me out."
James looked at Rose. "He does? Why?"
Rose gave James an expression of exasperated disdain. "He's only the
most famously self-serving wizard in the history of the magical world, you
know."
"Yeah, I suppose, but he's not evil."
"Hasn't it occurred to you that a wizard as powerful as Merlin could be
all the scarier because he's not evil but just selfish?"
James frowned incredulously. "Where in the world did you get that?
Your own parents were part of the committee that succeeded in getting him
appointed Headmaster."
Rose put her wand back into her bag and shoved it under her seat.
"Let's just say even his strongest supporters think there's a lot we don't
know about him."
"Like what?" James demanded.
"Like things we don't know," Rose repeated pedantically. "That's pretty
much the point: we don't know them."
James scoffed and turned away, fingering his wand.

The sky outside the train window was still grey as slate, promising
rain. Fields marched past monotonously. James decided to go see if he
could find any of his other friends. He stood and shoved the door open.
"Hey," Ralph said, not looking up from the tabloid he'd flipped open,
"if you see the cart lady, send her back down this way, would you? I'm
starved."
James nodded and stepped out. He was about to close the door again
when Albus squeezed through, joining James in the corridor.
"Why didn't you tell Ralph what your wand core was?" James asked as
they walked.
"What business is it of his?" Albus replied, as if daring James to
respond.
James shrugged. After a moment, Albus sighed.
"Look, it's bad enough everyone makes those jokes about my name.
Asp, a kind of snake, ha ha. If word gets out that my wand core is a dragon
heartstring…"
"I think it's kind of cool," James said. "Nobody messes with a dragon."
"Except for Uncle Charlie and Harold and Jules," Albus said, allowing
a small grin.
"Yeah, but they're totally dotty. They're almost as bad as Hagrid when
it comes to dragons." James stopped in the corridor and looked at Albus. "It
really isn't a big deal, you know. I tease you about it, but really, it's only
because when I was being sorted, I actually considered—"
Something flickered past them in the corridor. James saw it and
whipped around, gasping.

"What?" Albus asked, glancing around.
James shook his head, still studying the shadows of the corridor. "I
don't know. Something. I think I've seen it before, but I don't know what it
is yet."
"I see your first year of school has you just brimming with
knowledge," Albus said.
James held up his hand toward Albus, silencing him. The light in the
corridor was watery and indirect, full of flitting shadows as the train passed
through a stand of woods, but James was certain he recognized the shape
and movement of the tiny shadow imp. He was intent on finding it.
There was a sudden noise and burst of air, making James jump. He
glanced up as a large man with very short dark hair stepped into the corridor
from the adjoining car. He slid the connecting door shut easily, slamming it
into place.
"Bitter day out there, boys," he boomed, stalking toward them down
the aisle. "You'd best be getting to your compartments. It's not wise to be
gallivanting about a moving train."
"We're just, er, looking for our friends," James replied.
"Same as me, then," the man grinned, sidling past. "Better luck finding
them than I've had, eh?"
The large man moved to the end of the corridor and yanked the door
open, letting in another burst of air and noise from the connecting
breezeway between the cars. A moment later, he slammed the door.
"Was he a teacher?" Albus asked, looking after the man.
"I've never seen him before," James answered, distracted. He noticed
that the door through which the man had come was not entirely closed. It

had slid slightly back open when he'd slammed it. A whistle of cool air
pushed through it.
The shadow imp suddenly landed in front of the door, examining the
small opening. James saw it and his eyes widened. The creature seemed to
turn back to him, as if daring him to follow. The crack was far too narrow
even for the tiny shadow shape, but then it turned and squeezed through,
pouring through the space like smoke.
James bolted toward it.
"What is it?" Albus said, following.
"Did you see it?" James asked, trying to keep his footing on the
swaying floor.
"Yeah! Looked like a shadow, but standing all by itself!"
James reached the door and yanked it open. Misty air and the
deafening clack of the train's wheels poured in. The tiny connecting
breezeway rocked disconcertingly, but the creature was there, capering in
the alcove of the doorway leading into the next car. James reached for it,
but it slipped beneath the door, making itself so flat as to virtually
disappear.
"Come on!" James said, yanking the next door open. "I want to see
what this thing is! I owe it a thrashing!"
The next car of the train was exactly like the previous. Compartments
all along the right side were full of Hogwarts students, chattering and
laughing. James ignored them as he chased the creature down the corridor.
It scampered in and out of the shifting light, capering up the walls and
leaping over the floor. James realized he still had his wand in his hand.
Quickly, he tried to remember all the spells Professor Franklyn had taught
him last year in Defence Against the Dark Arts.
"There it goes!" Albus stopped, pointing. "It's heading for the engine!

We can't go in there, can we?"
James was determined to follow the shadow creature. He ran forward
as it shimmied into the sliver of light between the door and the wall. James
could see through the tiny window of the door. The next car wasn't a
passenger car, but the coal car that fuelled the engine. The noise of the
crimson locomotive was noticeably louder here. He reached for the door
handle and pulled, but it was locked.
"Are you sure that's a good idea?" Albus said as James pointed his
wand at the door.
"Alohomora!" James said loudly. There was a yellow flash and the
door slid partway open. James grabbed the handle and yanked the door
aside.
Cool, misty air and bits of soot blew into the compartment. The coal
car was a black iron wall on the other side of a connecting knuckle. Beneath
the giant knuckle, the ties of the train tracks flickered past. The shadow imp
danced on the knuckle, maintaining a dizzying balance in the barreling
wind and noise.
James pointed his wand. "What are you?" he called down to it. "What
are you doing here?"
The creature suddenly bent down. It wrapped its many-jointed arms
around the pin that secured the knuckle together. It began to pull fiercely,
trying to force the pin out and disconnect the train.
"Stop it!" James commanded, trying to keep his wand steady in the
push of wind and mist. "Stop it or I'll Stun you! I know how to do it!"
The creature increased its ferocity, yanking on the pin wildly. James
drew his breath.
"Stupefy!" he yelled at the exact moment that a large hand grabbed his
wrist, pulling it up. The spell rebounded off the iron wall of the coal car and

vanished into the blowing mist outside. James spun as far as he could, his
arm still held upright in a vice-like grip.
"That would not be a wise idea," Merlin said in his calm, rumbling
voice. He was standing directly behind James, resplendent in his dress robes
and oiled beard, his eyes locked on the shadow creature. He released James'
hand but did not step back.
James shifted aside as the wizard moved forward. Albus was standing
nearby, his eyes wide.
Merlin spoke to the creature. James couldn't understand the words but
recognized the language Merlin had used when speaking to Headmistress
McGonagall on the Sylvven Tower, the night after his arrival. It was a very
dense language, full of corners and tongue-twisting piles of consonants.
The imp stopped pulling the pin of the knuckle and slowly stood up, as
if transfixed. It stepped into the compartment, almost between Merlin's feet,
and stopped, swaying slightly as the train rocked. Merlin slid the door shut,
closing off the wind and the clack of the wheels. He stepped back, still
keeping his eyes on the shadowy shape.
"Mr. Potter," he said calmly, "would you be so kind as to stand guard
for a moment? I need to retrieve something from my compartment. I'm
afraid I was rather unprepared when I saw you running past in pursuit of the
Borley."
"The Borley?" James said, looking down at the slowly swaying
creature. "Er, yeah, sure. What do I need to do to guard it?"
"Absolutely nothing," Merlin said. "I've entranced it, but the words
won't last long. Just watch it in case it awakens again."
"What should we do if it does?" Albus interjected, pushing between
Merlin and James.
Merlin looked down at him. "Tell me which way it goes," he rumbled.

He turned to stalk heavily down the corridor. "Oh, and boys?" he said,
looking back at them over his shoulder. "Whatever you do, use no magic in
the Borley's presence."
A moment later, the connecting door opened and slammed as Merlin
passed through.
"What in the world is a Borley?" Albus asked, staring down at the
entranced shadow shape.
"I've no idea."
"So that was Merlin, eh?"
James nodded. "He's pretty hard to miss."
Halfway down the corridor, a compartment door slid open. Both
Potters looked up as a boy stepped out into the corridor. The boy glanced
back in the direction Merlin had gone, and then turned to James and Albus.
His face was cold, disinterested, and very pale. James recognized the son of
Draco Malfoy.
"Mischief already?" the boy commented. "And already in trouble with
the new Headmaster to boot."
"Well, it's no business of yours either way," James said, trying to stand
in front of the tiny shadow creature.
"I know you," the boy said, smiling and narrowing his eyes. "The two
Potters. I can't remember your first names. What's the point, really?"
"What do you want?" James asked, trying to put some authority into
his voice. He was a secondyear, after all. It wasn't much, but it was
something.
"At first, I wanted to see if you were as thick as I'd heard. The story
among the Slytherins is that the older of you has delusions of being a great

hero, just like your father supposedly was. But now that I see that you're
both only a pair of frightened kids, I just want to see what you have
cornered there," the boy said, gesturing toward the floor at James' feet.
Albus stepped forward. "Like he said, it's none of your business. Why
don't you shove off, Scorpius?"
"As a matter of fact, I don't plan to," the pale boy said, still smiling
indulgently. "I'm the curious type, I am. Let's have a look, why don't we?"
"I saw your dad last week," James said. He realized he still had his
wand in his hand.
"Yes," Scorpius said, rolling his eyes. "At the old man's funeral. He
thought it was the noble thing to do, I suppose. Mother didn't agree, but she
goes along with Father's ideas like a good wife should. Personally, I didn't
see the point. It's hard to feel bad about one dead Weasley when there are so
many more to take his place."
James felt something rush past him and glanced down, certain that the
shadow creature had reawakened. He was only aware of what was
happening when he heard the thump that followed. Albus had rushed
Scorpius, throwing him against the wall of the compartment hard enough to
make the boy stagger. They collapsed to the floor in an untidy jumble.
"How dare you? Get your hands off me!" Scorpius cried, struggling as
Albus wrestled to keep him down.
"Take that back!" Albus yelled furiously. "Take it back right now!"
More doors opened along the corridor. Curious students gathered,
some grinning and pointing.
"James," Sabrina Hildegard, a fellow Gryffindor, said as she stepped
into the corridor. "What's going on? First, the connecting door is left open,
and then—"

There was a sudden crack and a flash of red. Scorpius clambered to his
feet, his face livid. He pointed his wand wildly, but Albus lunged at him.
"No!" James shouted. "Albus, stop!"
There was a furor of voices and clamoring figures as Scorpius
stumbled backwards, trying to evade Albus' reaching arms. Another spell
ricocheted off the ceiling of the compartment. Suddenly, James remembered
the Borley. He spun around, looking for it, but the creature was gone.
Desperately, he scanned the corridor.
"No spells!" he shouted, holding up his hands, but no one noticed him.
James was jostled as more students pressed into the narrow space, crowding
to see the fight. He spun around, looking for the creature, and suddenly saw
it. The Borley leapt within the shadows of the milling students. It was much
larger than it had been at first, and seemed rather more solid. It jumped to
the floor and James heard a thump as it landed. Unthinkingly, he pointed his
wand at it. The Borley saw him and lunged as if to attack. James pulled his
wand up and ducked. The creature went over his head and disappeared into
the throng that filled the corridor.
"BE STILL!" a very large voice boomed, and James didn't have to
guess who it belonged to. He grimaced and slumped against the wall.
The crowd of onlookers silenced immediately. A moment later, the
corridor had emptied again as the milling students slipped sheepishly back
into their compartments, leaving James, Albus, and Scorpius. Albus had a
handful of Scorpius' robes. Scorpius still had his wand in his hand. He tried
to slip it surreptitiously into his robes.
Merlin rolled his eyes slowly. "So," he said in his low, rumbling voice,
"can any of you tell me in which direction it went?"

3. THE SORTING
"Y ou can't take ten points from Gryffindor before we even get to
school!" James insisted, trotting to keep up with Merlin's massive stride.
Albus followed, glancing back angrily.
"Deducting points from the offender's house is the preferred
method of discipline at Hogwarts, Mr. Potter," Merlin said distractedly. "I
asked you to guard the Borley. And not to allow any magic to be used in its
presence. Failing that, you were to at least point me in the direction of its
escape. I'd not be fulfilling my duties as Headmaster if I didn't mete out
some form of discipline for your complete disregard of my direction."
"But Scorpius did the magic!" James insisted, jumping in front of the

Headmaster and forcing him to stop. "It's not my fault he's a hotheaded git!
I did everything I could to stop him!"
Merlin was scanning the corridor slowly. "Did you truly do everything
you could, Mr. Potter?"
James threw up his hands. "Well, I suppose I could have sat on Albus
to prevent him from attacking the bloody loudmouth!"
Merlin nodded, and then looked down at James, giving him his full
attention for the first time. "It is true, what they say, Mr. Potter: I come from
a much different age. When I give instruction, I do not do so lightly. It will
behoove you to remember that a lack of effort in carrying out those
instructions goes much poorer with me than an excess of effort. Do you
understand?"
James worked through the sentence in his head, nodding slightly. He
glanced up at the Headmaster and shook his head.
"It means," Merlin replied slowly, "that I expect you to do everything
within your power to carry out my requests. If sitting on your brother might
have helped, then next time, I expect you to do exactly that. The Borley has
escaped, and more importantly, your negligence has allowed it to gain
power. It will not be as easy to transfix next time. And you should be aware
that, up until a few minutes ago, it was relatively harmless."
Merlin's lowered brow and glittering eyes made the point very clearly.
James still felt unjustly accused, but he nodded his understanding.
"What is it?" Albus asked. "This Borley thing."
Merlin turned away, half dismissing the boys. "They are a form of
Shade: shadow creatures. They are purely magical beings, and as such, they
feed on magic. They'll taunt young or foolish wizards into using magic on
them so that they might feed and grow. When they are tiny, they are
harmless. As they grow…"

James looked around the compartment, following Merlin. "What do
they grow into?"
"I believe," Merlin said gravely, "that you call them 'Dementors'."
Both James and Albus knew about Dementors. James shuddered.
"I think I saw this same Borley a week ago, back at my grandparents'
house," James commented. "And then later, at the eye doctor's. It made a
horrible mess, but a few minutes later, when the doctor came into the room,
the mess had vanished. Everything was back to normal. I thought I'd
imagined it."
"You didn't imagine it," Merlin said, stopping at the end of the corridor
and turning. "The Borleys come from a realm outside of history. They can
manipulate tiny pockets of time, bunching minutes together like a wrinkle
in a rug and then poking directly through them. You saw its actions, so you
remembered them even after it leapt back in time and undid them."
Albus screwed up his face in concentration. He shook his head. "But
why would it do that?"
"It's a defensive reflex," Merlin said curtly. "They use it to cover their
tracks. It's somewhat akin to a squid squirting ink to confuse its enemy."
"Confused me all right," James nodded.
"So if you can't catch them using magic," Albus asked, "how do you
catch them? What do you do with them after you, er, transfix them? You
said you needed to go get something. Is it in that bag?"
"Please return to your compartment, boys," Merlin ordered, turning
and opening his own compartment. He shouldered the large, black bag. "We
will be arriving at the station soon. You should get into your robes."
"Yeah, but—" Albus began but was silenced by the closing of the

compartment door. The windows were smoked, blocking any view of the
interior.
"Well, that was educational," Albus commented as they retraced their
steps back along the train's corridors.
James said nothing. He felt rankled by the way he'd been held
responsible for the escape of the Borley. How could Merlin have blamed
him and allowed Scorpius to get away without even a stern look? James had
been looking forward to the start of the school year partly because he had a
sort of rapport with Merlin, the new Headmaster. After all, James had been
inadvertently responsible for the famous wizard's return from the distant
past. Also, they had worked together at the end of the last term to thwart a
cunning plot to cause a war between the Muggle and magical worlds. And
yet, even before their arrival at Hogwarts, James seemed to have gotten on
Merlin's bad side.
As he and Albus returned to their compartment, James remembered the
words Rose had said at the beginning of their trip: a wizard as powerful as
Merlin could be all the scarier because he's not evil but just selfish.
But of course that was ridiculous, wasn't it? Merlin wasn't selfish, just
different. James knew Merlin as well as anyone did. He'd even been
consulted about whether or not the famous wizard would be a good
Headmaster. He wasn't dangerous. He was just from a much different time.
Merlin had said so himself. He came from a much more serious, grave age.
Not only was it important for James to remember that fact, it was important
for him to help the rest of the students understand it as well.
By the time Albus yanked the door to their compartment open, it had
begun to rain in earnest. The windows of the train were streaked and
spattered with huge drops. Ralph was asleep on his seat with his tabloid
open on his chest. Rose was buried in her book, barely noticing the brothers'
return. And James was becoming rather certain that this year might not be
quite as fun as he'd first thought.

As the light began to fade from the day and the rain finally abated,
James, Albus, and Ralph dug their robes out of their satchels. Both James
and Albus' robes were rather sadly wrinkled. Rose looked up from her book
and clucked her tongue at them.
"Haven't you two ever learned how to fold your clothes?"
"Boys don't learn things like that," Albus said, trying to smooth out the
front of his robe with his hands. "We learn cool things. Secret boy things
that I'm not even allowed to tell you about. Girls get stuck learning how to
pack clothes so their husbands look good when they go out to their jobs."
"I'm not even going to respond to that," Rose said, shaking her head
sadly. "I only hope your sister is learning her lessons better than you did.
The son of a famous woman Quidditch player should know better."
Ralph raised his eyebrows. "I think I know an Anti-Wrinkling Spell.
You want me to try it out?"
"No thanks, Ralph," James said quickly, "no offense, but I still
remember you burning a bald stripe on Victoire's head last year."
"That was a Disarming Spell," Ralph said defensively. "My wand is a
little sensitive about those. The problem isn't getting them to work but
keeping them from working too well."
"Hmm!" Rose said pointedly, "I wonder why that might be?"
"So you really tackled him, eh?" Ralph said to Albus, reverting to a former

topic.
"Knocked him clean off his feet," James said, nudging his brother. "It
was pretty good even if it did get me into trouble."
"You need to learn some self-control, Albus," Rose said, finally putting
her book aside. "He may be hard to like, but you are at Hogwarts now. You
can't go around tackling everyone who says something you don't like."
"Something I don't like?" Albus said, glaring at Rose. "Did you miss
the part where he insulted our dead granddad? There's such a thing as
honor, you know! I'll do it again if he so much as looks at me sideways."
"I didn't say you shouldn't retaliate, Albus," Rose said meaningfully. "I
just said we're at Hogwarts now. You retaliate with magic."
"Yikes," James said, laughing a little nervously. "The apple really fell
far from the tree with you, Rosie."
Rose looked hurt. "I may be my mum's daughter, but I'll have you
remember that I'm a Weasley, too."
Albus grimaced. "Well, I can't do any real magic yet. Besides, it felt so
good to knock him down."
Rose shot James a serious look. "Then I hope you're getting your bum
in gear. Looks like you'll be spending a lot of the year sitting on your little
brother."
"He's his own problem from now on," James said. "Besides, Scorpius
deserved it. That stupid twit was trying to Stun Albus. His parents have
been teaching him curses already. It's a good thing Albus has a good reach."
"Well, all I can say is I'm going to be doing some research on this
Borley creature," Rose said as the train slowed, entering Hogsmeade
station.

Albus raised his eyebrows in mock surprise. "You mean there's a
magical creature you haven't learned about already?"
"Sounds like trouble to me," Ralph admitted. "If Merlin said the thing
had turned dangerous, I'd guess it's definitely something to look out for."
James zipped his satchel and slipped it over his shoulders. "I just want
to know why it's been following me around. Why'd it pick me?"
"Obviously, it thought it could trick you into using magic on it," Rose
reasoned. "It almost worked too."
"That's why it ran away when you threatened it at the doctor's office,"
Ralph added, raising his eyebrows. "You said you told it you were a wizard,
but that you didn't have your wand with you. It realized there was no point
in making a mess if you weren't going to zap it, so it covered its tracks by
jumping back a few minutes and undoing everything."
"Yeah, well, aren't you all brilliant?" James grumbled. "I'd like to see
how you lot would've handled it if you'd been there. Besides, it was
Scorpius and Albus that finally allowed the thing to get a little magical
snack and turn all scary."
"Don't blame me," Albus said, still trying to press the wrinkles out of
his robes with his hands. "If you'd have attacked Scorpius with me, you
could've disarmed him before anything happened. I bet old Merlin would've
approved of that."
A few minutes later, the train shuddered to a stop. All around there
came the sound of opening doors, footsteps, and chattering, excited voices
as the train's occupants filled the corridors, streaming toward the exits.
James, Albus, Rose, and Ralph gathered their things and joined the throng.
As they climbed out onto the wet platform of Hogsmeade station,
James caught sight of Hagrid standing under a nearby lamppost, barely
fitting under it.

"First-years," he called in his great, gruff voice. "First-years, this way!
The rest of yeh go an' find the carriages out front. If yeh don' know where
to go, follow the ones that do. Step lively now."
James grabbed Albus' robe, stopping him.
"Hey," he said, quietly, "I mean it. Don't worry about the Sorting, little
brother."
"I'm not, actually," Albus replied, shrugging. "I remembered
something Dad told me back at platform nine and three-quarters."
James blinked. "Well, good. What'd he say?"
"He said that the Sorting Hat will take my wishes into account. He said
that if I really don't want to, the Hat won't make me be a Slytherin."
"You, a Slytherin?" Scorpius' voice sneered behind them. James rolled
his eyes. He should've known the little squid was the spying sort.
"Get away from us, Scorpius," Albus said, gritting his teeth.
"Or what?" the boy grinned. "Are you going to risk getting your
brother into trouble again by rushing me? That only works once, Potter."
Albus nodded. "I'll do that and more if you don't watch yourself."
"That's why you'd never make it into Slytherin," Scorpius said airily,
turning to walk away. "As you saw on the train, Slytherins fight with their
brains and a wand. Your sort has to rely on brute force. But what do you
expect from a son of Harry Potter?"
Albus tensed to lunge at Scorpius again, but James grabbed his
shoulder. "Don't you dare go after him again, you dolt. That's just what he
wants you to do."

"He's ragging on Dad!" Albus hissed.
"He's trying to provoke you. Save it for later. You've got the whole
school year to hate him."
"That's right, Potter," Scorpius said as he turned back, still grinning.
"Listen to your brother. He knows what happens when you go up against a
Slytherin. Did he tell you what happened when he tried to steal the
Slytherin Captain's Quidditch broom last year? Nasty business, that. I hear
you ended up facedown in the mud."
James let go of Albus' shoulder, his face flushing with anger. "You just
want to watch it, Malfoy. We're not afraid of the Slytherins."
"Then you really are as foolish as you look," Scorpius said, his grin
vanishing. "A Malfoy is back in the House of Slytherin again. We don't play
politics. You best watch yourselves." He glared at the two brothers, then
turned, his cloak flapping, and disappeared into the throng.
"Arrogant little nutter, isn't he?" Albus said. James glanced at him and
grinned.
"See you in the Great Hall, Al."
"Yeah," Albus replied, nodding toward the carriages. "Have fun with
the Thestrals. Don't let them frighten you too much."
"You're the one who has nightmares about them, not me," James said,
rolling his eyes. "Like I told you, they're invisible."
Albus simply looked at James, a curious expression on his face.
"What?" James asked.
"Nothing," Albus said quickly. "I was just thinking of something else
Dad said on the platform, right before I got on the train."

James stopped and furrowed his brow. "What'd he say?"
Albus shrugged. "He said James might have a little surprise with the
Thestrals."
With that, Albus turned, shouldered his pack, and walked toward
Hagrid at the far end of the platform.

They weren't invisible; at least not completely. James hung back,
sincerely apprehensive to get too close to the horrible-looking, semitransparent creatures hitched to the carriages. The nearest one beat its great
leathery wings slowly. It turned to look at him, its blank white eyes bulging
grotesquely.
"You can see them, eh?" a voice asked. James glanced up, startled, and
saw the stout face and red cheeks of his friend Damien Damascus. Damien
was also looking at the Thestrals, his brow slightly furrowed. "I started
seeing them at the beginning of my fourth year. Shocked me good, I'll tell
you. I thought the carriages were just magical, that they pulled themselves
up to the castle. Noah took me aside and told me all about the Thestrals.
He'd been seeing them since his second year. Come on, they're harmless.
They're actually kind of cool when you get used to them."
James threw his bag into the carriage and climbed into the rear seat.
"Hi, James," Sabrina said as she heaved herself into the front seat. She
still wore a quill in her wavy red hair. It bounced jauntily as she turned to
look over her shoulder. "So what was the drama in the train? Merlin looked
like he was going to shoot death bolts from his eyes."

James ran his hand through his hair wearily. "Don't remind me. I
already got ten points taken from Gryffindor."
"Not the best way to start the year off," Petra Morganstern said, joining
Sabrina on the front seat. "That kind of thing can get your fellow
Gryffindors a bit peeved. Fortunately, we seventh-years are above being
petty about such things."
"Sabrina and I are sixth-years," Damien pointed out. "And I don't
know about her, but I'm still as petty as they come. I haven't forgiven you
lot for losing us the House Cup last year. To Hufflepuff, of all things."
"You'll forgive us for trying to save the world," Petra said lightly,
arranging her robes on the seat. "Besides, I recall you were involved in that
escapade as well."
"That may be, but unlike the rest of you, my involvement was never
proved. That's why our dear departed Ted saw fit to make me the official
Gremlins scapegoat. Allegations just roll right off me."
Sabrina nodded seriously. "I'm glad you found a good use for that oily
hide of yours."
There was a sudden jerk and the carriage rolled forward. James looked
and saw the ghostly Thestral trotting ahead, pulling the carriage. He
squinted at it, trying to see it more clearly.
Damien leaned toward him and asked in a quiet voice, "So who died?"
"What?" James blurted, turning to look at the bigger boy. He lowered
his own voice and asked, "How'd you know?"
"My aunt died when I was in my third year," Damien replied. "It was
silly, really. Broom accident on her way back from visiting my
grandparents. Mum warned her not to fly with a storm coming on, but Aunt
Aggie always thought she was indestructible. She stayed alive in St.

Mungo's long enough for us all to get there and see her. She died while I
was there, in the room. When I came back the next year, I saw the Thestrals
for the first time. I thought I was going daft until Noah pulled me aside and
told me about them. He said that they become visible to anyone who has
witnessed and accepted a death. So who died?"
James sat back in his seat and took a deep breath. "My Granddad
Weasley," he said in a soft voice. "He had a heart attack."
Damien raised his eyebrows. "Old Arthur Weasley?"
"You knew him?"
"Well, not in person," he replied, "but he was the father-in-law of your
dad, and let's face it, your dad's a celebrity. Besides, Arthur Weasley faced
Voldy's snake, didn't he? Not bad for a Ministry quillpusher! Lots of people
know about that. They say that it proves courage is more important than
magic when it comes to the sticking point."
James looked at Damien, surprised. "Do they really?"
"Sure they do," Damien said. "I mean, the people who say that are also
the kind of people who buy Hair-growth Charms and read The Quibbler, but
still, yeah, they say it all right."
James looked back out at the hazy shape of the Thestral. It trotted
along, pulling the carriage easily despite the fact that it looked skinny
enough to break in half.
"Why is it only partly visible?" James finally asked.
"Is it?" Damien leaned forward. "Looks solid enough to me."
"I can see the street right through it," James said, shuddering.
"Well, like I said," Damien replied, settling back in his seat as the great
castle rose over the nearby trees, "the Thestrals become visible to anyone

who has seen and accepted a death. It doesn't sound like you saw your
granddad die with your own eyes like I did with my aunt, but he meant
enough to you for it to mean the same thing."
"We were waiting for him to come home," James replied hollowly.
"We were just waiting for him to come through the Floo. Somebody did, but
it wasn't Granddad. It was the messenger telling us he'd died."
"So you went from believing he was right there with you, to the
knowledge of his death, all in a matter of seconds," Damien said, nodding.
"That was close enough to give you a half-look at the Thestrals. But I don't
think that's all there is to it. Sounds like you haven't quite accepted it yet
either, have you?"
James sighed, not answering. Instead, he looked up at the sprawling,
monstrous shape of the castle as it loomed ahead. Its myriad windows were
lit against the misty, cloudy evening. James thought he could see the
Gryffindor Tower, where his bed was waiting for him. It was nice to be
back even if things did feel very different. It had felt that way ever since the
funeral, just knowing that Granddad was no longer out there somewhere,
like he'd always been. No, James realized, he hadn't accepted Granddad's
death. Not yet. And what was more, he didn't want to. It didn't feel fair to
Granddad. Accepting his death felt like giving up on him.
For a moment, James wondered if Albus felt the same way, and then
he remembered how Albus had attacked Scorpius in the corridor of the
train, tackling him and yelling "Take it back! Take it back right now!"
Albus hadn't accepted Granddad's death either. It just looked different in
him, mainly because Albus had now found someone at whom to point his
anger and grief. It probably wasn't the healthiest way to manage things, but
James couldn't think of anything better. To be sure, Scorpius made it rather
easy for Albus to hate him. James had grown up with Albus, and he knew
just how passionate the boy could be. Thinking that, James didn't know
whether to despise Scorpius or pity him.

James marveled at time's ability to alter one's perception. Merely one
year earlier, he had entered the Great Hall for the first time, filled with
apprehension and worry. Now he threw himself happily into the noise of the
gathered students, greeting friends he hadn't seen all summer and being
welcomed into the hearty fracas of the Gryffindor table. The floating
candles filled the hall with warmth and light, forming an exciting contrast
against the sullen grey clouds represented on the room's ceiling. Peeves
swooped randomly throughout the candles, blowing raspberries on the tiny
flames in an effort to put them out, but they simply relit themselves with
small pops as he passed. James sat down at the Gryffindor table and
grabbed a handful of Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans from a nearby bowl.
Bravely, he popped one into his mouth without checking the color. A
moment later, he screwed up his face, not quite daring to spit the candy out.
"You'll want to be especially careful with those, James," a fellow
second-year, Graham Warton, called. "Those were provided free of charge
by your pals at Weasleys'. They partnered with Bertie Bott's for a whole
new line of novelty flavors, and we get to be the test market."
"What is it?" James managed to say, swallowing the horrid bean and
grabbing a pitcher of pumpkin juice.
"Judging by the color of your tongue, I'd say that one was LemonLima-Bean," Graham said, squinting studiously. "There's also MintChocolate-Chipmunk and Peanut-Pickle-Brittle."
"Damien just ate one of the Steak-and-Kidney-Stone beans!" Noah
Metzker called from the end of the table, pointing. "Everybody, duck! I
think he's going to blow!"

James couldn't help laughing as Damien struggled to swallow the bean.
Petra pounded him gravely on the back until Damien shoved her away,
lunging for his goblet.
A hush rippled over the rowdy students and James looked up to see
Merlin approach the huge podium on the hall's dais. He had donned a
blazing red robe with a high golden collar, and James recognized it as
Merlin's rather ancient version of a dress robe. The sleeves and collar of the
robe were encrusted with braided scrollwork that glittered with actual gold
and jewels. The giant man's beard glistened with oil and he carried his staff
with him, knocking it pointedly on the floor as he approached. He was so
tall that he made the podium appear small. He leaned over it slightly, his
eyes unreadable as they roamed over the silenced assembly.
"Greetings, students and faculty of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry," he said slowly, his deep voice echoing all round. "My name is
Merlinus Ambrosius, and if you have somehow managed not to learn of it
on the wizarding wireless or in the newspapers, I am the new Headmaster
of this institution. As such, I will expect to hear no more of the rather
distressing verbal tendency of this age to use my name as an oath or an
expression of amazement. You should know that neither I nor my
underpants find it the least bit amusing."
James knew that the comment would have been funny if Merlin hadn't
said it with such pointed gravity. He glared out at the assembly of students,
daring anyone to so much as chuckle. Apparently satisfied, he straightened
and smiled disarmingly.
"Very well, then. As Headmaster, I succeed Madam Minerva
McGonagall, who, as you can see, has deigned to remain at the school to
serve as my advisor and to continue in her duties as Professor of
Transfiguration."
There was a burst of applause, which seemed to take Merlin off guard.
He blinked out over the crowd, and then smiled slightly. The applause grew
to a sustained ovation and Merlin stepped back from the podium,

acknowledging the former Headmistress. On the floor before the podium,
the first-years were lining up behind Professor Longbottom. James saw
Albus and Rose, both of whom were looking around the room in awe. Rose
glanced up at the dais just as the newly retitled Professor McGonagall
pushed her chair back. She stood and raised one hand, smiling tightly. On
the floor, Rose elbowed Albus and pointed.
"Thank you," McGonagall called over the sound of the applause,
trying to drown it out. "Thank you, this is all very kind, but I know you all
too well not to know that at least some of you are applauding my longawaited departure for your own reasons entirely. Still, the sentiment is quite
appreciated."
Laughter rounded out the applause as Professor McGonagall settled
back into her chair. Merlin approached the podium again.
"Besides finding yourselves with a new Headmaster, those of you who
are returning this year will find several more changes. Not the least of these
is the installation of our new Wizard Literature professor, Juliet Knowles
Revalvier, who is herself an accomplished writer, as many of you may
know. Additionally, allow me to introduce to you your new Defence
Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Kendrick Debellows."
A wave of awed whispering filled the hall as a large man half-rose
from his seat on the dais. He smiled a huge, winning smile and raised his
hand. James remembered him from the train. He was the man who'd passed
him and Albus when they'd been looking for the Borley. James hadn't
recognized him then, but he did now. His hair was going grey and cut
severely short, and he had gained rather a lot of weight in the years since
his famous exploits as leader of the Harriers, the wizarding world's elite
special forces squadron. Across the room, at the Slytherin table, James saw
Ralph looking puzzled. His friend Trenton was leaning over to him,
apparently explaining who Kendrick Debellows was. On the floor below the
dais, James saw Scorpius Malfoy turn away, his face vaguely disgusted.
"I've got a whole collection of Debellows action figures at home,"
James heard Noah whisper meaningfully. "I collected them when I was

little. I used to sic them on Steven's cat until one of them nearly tied its tail
in a knot."
"I see many of you are familiar with Professor Debellows," Merlin
commented from the podium. "I trust you will therefore find his classes
interesting as well as challenging. And now I believe we will witness one of
this school's longest and most important traditions: the Sorting of our
newest students into their houses. Professor McGonagall, if you would do
us the honors."
Exactly as last year, a wooden stool had been placed on the dais. Atop
it, the worn and ancient Sorting Hat sat, looking like nothing more than a
dusty cast-off from a forgotten wardrobe. James knew that in his parents'
day, and for centuries before, the Hat had sung a song prior to each year's
Sorting. Last year, however, the Hat had not produced a song. James hadn't
thought about it much; he'd merely assumed that after all those centuries the
Hat deserved the occasional break. Now, the ancient Hat stirred on its stool,
apparently preparing to sing. The fold that formed the mouth seemed to
open, to take a deep breath, and then the Hat's high, lilting voice filled the
waiting silence.
"A thousand years and more have I resided at my post
And watched the tide of years forever ebb upon my host
Fair Hogwarts alters not despite the weight of ages raging
For Hogwarts knows that time revolves, while she is only
aging
The rise of villains coincides, to keep the balance rightly
With dawning heroes in whose eyes good justice blazes
brightly
In recent past, dread Voldemort rose up with might so scary
That fate did send a hero boy, the orphan Potter, Harry
And thus unveiled the drama of time's everlasting scheme
The players change, the venues shift, but constant is the
theme
The root of evil always finds a new and fertile garden
But valor's heart is ever strong to bring us fate's good pardon
And this, you see, brings us to me, the Hat that does the Sorting,

For 'tis my task to keep the balance right for evil thwarting
For witnessed I the dawn of that long battle that endures
And long as that old struggle lasts, my duty hope ensures
I see the seed that guarantees the role of every student
And place them best into the House that grows that seed
most prudent
In Hufflepuff, the seed of loyalty and diligence
For Ravenclaw, the vine of knowledge grows with common
sense
Brave Gryffindor breeds valor and courageousness of heart
And Slytherin gives those who love ambition their good start
They go there hence into their House as sign of their vocation
But many sense it gives a hint of deeper motivation
Make no mistake, judge not the one upon their house of Sorting
But always look instead to gauge the way of their
comporting
For good can come of any House, regardless of its banner
And evil, too, can spread its leaves within the finest manor
Beneath my brim now come and sit to hear my declaration
But be assured, you bring along your heart's own inclination
It matters not what happens while you sit upon this chair
The true judge of your character is what's beneath your hair."
As the Sorting Hat finished its song, the Hall erupted into applause.
James grinned, craning to look across the room toward Ralph, who smiled
back a little sheepishly. If anyone needed to hear the Hat's most recent song,
it was Ralph, whose assignment to Slytherin had been a source of rather
constant consternation during the previous year. As the applause died away,
Professor McGonagall approached the Hat, producing a long parchment
from her robes. She unrolled it and studied it through her tiny spectacles.
She nodded to herself, lowered the parchment, and picked up the Sorting
Hat by its tip.
"Cameron Creevey," she announced loudly. "Please join me on the
dais."
A very small, very nervous-looking boy climbed the steps and

clambered onto the stool. There's no way I looked that young and scared
when I sat on that stool, James thought to himself, smiling. He remembered
it very well: the voice of the magical Hat in his head considering him,
debating which house would best suit him. It had been a close call.
Moments before he'd climbed the dais, as then-Headmistress McGonagall
had called his name, the Slytherin table had broken out in applause. A
beautiful, albeit severe-looking, darkhaired girl named Tabitha Violetus
Corsica had led the applause, and as James looked back on the memory, he
thought for the first time that the Slytherins' applause had merely been a
ruse, intended to sway him into accepting an assignment to Slytherin. As
scared as he'd been, as worried as he'd been about the responsibility of
following in his famous father's footsteps, James had almost fallen for it.
For a fleeting moment, under the brim of the Sorting Hat, James had
considered becoming a Slytherin, and the Hat had concurred. Only at the
last second had James firmed his resolve, proving that he meant to be a
Gryffindor, like his parents before him.
"Gryffindor!" the Sorting Hat proclaimed. Professor McGonagall lifted
the Hat from Creevey's head as the Gryffindor table exploded into cheers.
Cameron Creevey grinned in obvious relief as he ran down the steps. He
crammed into the front of the table, sitting between Damien and a seventhyear named Hugo Paulson.
"Thomas Danforth," Professor McGonagall called, reading from her
parchment. A moment later, the Ravenclaw table cheered as the
bespectacled boy smiled sheepishly, joining his new housemates. As the
Sorting continued, James glanced around the hall, picking out all the faces
he knew. There was Victoire, sitting resplendently amidst her seventh-year
Hufflepuff friends. Gennifer Tellus and Horace Birch whispered to each
other at the end of the Ravenclaw table, and James remembered Zane
telling him that they had begun seeing each other over the summer. Across
the room, Tabitha Corsica sat smiling politely, her hands folded neatly on
the table in front of her. On her left sat Philia Goyle, whose bricklike face
was as expressionless as ever. Tom Squallus sat on Tabitha's right, his
blonde hair combed neatly and his eyes almost unnaturally bright and alert.
It almost looked like the trio of Slytherins were up to something, but James

reminded himself that they always looked like that. They were probably just
waiting for the Sorting of their new mate—
"Scorpius Malfoy," Professor McGonagall called, lowering her
parchment and glancing down at the remaining first-years. Scorpius curled
the corner of his mouth as he turned. He climbed the steps and sat jauntily
on the stool, one leg kicked out in front of him. The Hat threw his face into
shadow as Professor McGonagall lowered it.
Several seconds went by. The room had become rather restless as the
older students got bored with the ceremony, but they silenced again as the
pause grew longer. The Hat sat perfectly still on Scorpius' head. Scorpius
himself didn't move. James looked around, surprised at the delay.
Everybody knew that the Malfoys were Slytherins. Their family was known
to have been among Voldemort's strongest supporters. Lucius Malfoy,
Scorpius' grandfather, was said to still be in hiding for crimes he'd
committed as a Death Eater, although James' dad had denied it. "He just
likes to believe he's the most wanted man in the wizarding world," Harry
had chuckled to Ginny one morning over breakfast. "His worst punishment
is living in a world where his idol is dead." Still, there couldn't be any
question about a Malfoy's house, could there? They nearly defined what it
was to be a Slytherin. Perhaps something was wrong with the Hat. James
nudged Graham, who glanced at him and shrugged curiously.
"Gryffindor!" the Sorting Hat suddenly sang out, pointing its peak at
the ceiling.
Complete, stunned silence filled the hall as the Hat was lifted from
Scorpius' head. His chin drooped and he closed his eyes. After a long
moment, he climbed off the stool and clumped slowly down the stairs. The
Gryffindor table remained absolutely silent as Scorpius approached it. He
passed the head of the table, where most of the newly named Gryffindors
sat staring, wide-eyed. James watched as Scorpius stalked the entire length
of the table, not raising his eyes. When he reached the end, he stopped for a
moment, apparently unwilling to actually sit down. Finally, he slumped
onto a bench on the end. He raised his eyes, and James saw that they were

tinged with red. Scorpius glared at James. After a long moment, he pressed
his lips together and turned his gaze to the front of the hall.
"Albus Potter," McGonagall called into the silence. James couldn't
help glancing aside at the Slytherin table. Tabitha wasn't rising to applaud
this time. Strangely though, she was still smiling her polite smile,
apparently completely unperturbed by Malfoy's Sorting.
Albus looked back over his shoulder as he climbed the steps to the
dais. James assumed he was looking at him; he smiled encouragingly and
nodded to his brother up on the dais. Albus showed no sign that he'd seen
him. He approached the stool and stared down at it for a moment. Professor
McGonagall nodded curtly to him. Albus squared his shoulders, turned, and
sat down.
There was no idle chatter now as the Sorting Hat settled onto Albus'
head. Every eye in the room watched. Everyone knew that Albus was going
to go to Gryffindor. James had only ever joked about it because he was so
sure it was only a joke. A Potter could never really be sent to Slytherin. But
as James thought that, he remembered the look of hate on Albus' face when
Malfoy had insulted him on the Hogsmeade platform. Albus had always
been a passionate boy. That could be a very good thing, a beautiful thing.
But, as James had very recently thought, it could also be a little scary. Too
late, James realized that Albus had not turned to look back at him, James,
when he'd climbed the stairs to his Sorting. He'd turned to look back at
Scorpius, to make sure he was watching. He wanted to make sure Scorpius
wouldn't miss what was about to happen.
"Slytherin!" the Hat proclaimed loudly. There was a sustained,
collective gasp, filling the hall. Professor McGonagall raised the Hat from
Albus' head, and even she seemed surprised at the pronouncement.
Albus was grinning happily, but he wasn't looking at the table
belonging to his new house, which had erupted into wild applause. Albus
was looking down the length of the Gryffindor table. James didn't need to
follow his brother's gaze to know who he was looking at, but he did
anyway.

Scorpius Malfoy stared back at Albus, his eyes baleful, his mouth a
grim, white line of pure hatred.

4. TRIAL OF THE GOLDEN CORD
As dinner appeared on the tables and the assembly began to eat, James
couldn't help craning to see what was happening at the Slytherin table.
Albus was seated next to Ralph, but he was deep in animated conversation
with Trenton Bloch, Ralph's best Slytherin friend. As James watched, the
two boys erupted into raucous laughter. Even Ralph was smiling and
nodding as he gnawed a chicken leg.
"Something wrong with your neck, James?" Graham asked around a
mouthful of stew.
"I'm just trying to see what's going on," James said. "It just isn't right!
Albus can't be a Slytherin!"

Rose, beaming about her own Sorting into Gryffindor House, leaned
toward James. "You keep on saying that, but as I recall, you were the one
winding him up all summer about becoming exactly that."
"Well, yeah, but I was never serious!"
Graham followed James' gaze, peering across the hall to the table
under the green banner. "Looks like he's having a grand time of it. Even
Corsica is talking to him."
"Well," James exclaimed stridently, "she would, wouldn't she? She was
trying to make all nice with me last year as well, up until she called my dad
a liar in front of the whole school. She's probably just as pleased as can be
that they've got a Potter in Slytherin. Who knows what kind of propaganda
she'll fill his head with? It'll be her crowning achievement."
"Albus can take care of himself, James," Noah said dismissively.
"Besides, you said yourself you were almost sent to Slytherin last year."
"I should go check on him," James said, moving to stand. Damien
reached over and pushed him back into his seat.
"Let him be," Damien said. "He looks to be doing just fine."
"But he's in Slytherin!" James cried, exasperated. "He can't go to
Slytherin! He's a Potter!"
"You want to talk about surprises," Rose said, lowering her voice,
"even as we speak, a Malfoy is sitting at the end of the Gryffindor table."
James had nearly forgotten about Scorpius. He turned, following
Rose's glance. Scorpius wasn't eating. The Gryffindors nearest him were
studiously ignoring him, laughing and joking loudly. Scorpius caught James
looking at him. He narrowed his eyes and smiled grotesquely, making a
parody of those around him. Then he rolled his eyes and turned away.

"That's the one that really baffles me," Graham muttered. "How's a
greasy git like him end up a Gryffindor?"
Rose reached for another roll. "You don't know what's in his heart,"
she said. "The Sorting Hat sees who you really are, not what your family
has always been. Maybe there's more to Scorpius Malfoy than meets the
eye."
James shook his head. "Not a chance. I heard the way he talked about
Granddad. He's horrible. Besides, he was as proud as a peacock about his
Slytherin heritage."
"None of that makes him a Slytherin," Rose commented carefully.
"That's true," Damien concurred. "Being nasty isn't necessarily a ticket
into Slytherin. Like the Hat said, Slytherins are usually known for ambition.
Maybe after a few decades of backing the losing horse, guys like Malfoy
are finding raw ambition a little harder to come by."
"So that makes him Gryffindor material?" Graham asked disgustedly.
"I can barely stand to look at him. What's Gryffindor about him?"
Nobody had any response to that. James couldn't help glancing aside
again, looking down the length of the table to where Scorpius sat. The boy
looked completely disinterested and aloof, but James knew it was a façade.
He'd seen the expression on Scorpius' face when he first sat down at the
Gryffindor table. James remembered his own fears on the night of his
Sorting, worried that he'd not make it into Gryffindor, that he'd disappoint
his family and fail to live up to the expectations of the son of Harry Potter.
Was Scorpius dealing with the same sort of situation in reverse? James
suspected he was, but his pride wouldn't let him show it. And then there
was Albus, who, to James' complete amazement, had apparently allowed
the Sorting Hat to send him to Slytherin just to spite Scorpius.
Without planning it, James climbed off the bench. He walked to the

end of the table and stopped next to Scorpius. The pale boy pretended not to
notice him.
"Well," James began, not entirely sure what to say, "looks like we're
going to be housemates."
Scorpius still didn't look at James. He seemed to be gazing out over the
other tables, his eyes halflidded, as if bored.
"I suppose we didn't get off too well, back on the train," James
continued. He felt the eyes of the rest of the table upon him, and he hoped
that this was a good idea. "But since we're going to be living in the same
rooms for the rest of the year, I thought maybe it'd be best just to start over.
Welcome to Gryffindor, Scorpius."
James stuck his hand out, the same way he'd seen Scorpius' dad do it
when he'd spoken to Harry at the funeral. Scorpius was still staring idly out
over the hall. Slowly, he turned his head, looking disdainfully at James'
proffered hand.
"Well, that's very sweet, Potter, but don't go wasting your manners on
me," Scorpius said, allowing a crooked grin to curl his lip. "We may have to
share a house, but that doesn't make us mates. You think I'm all brokenhearted at not being selected for Slytherin? Well, you're wrong. I'm
perfectly happy being a Gryffindor. In fact, I consider it a golden
opportunity. I intend to prove to you what it really means to be a Gryffindor.
After all these years of sloppy heroics and lucky breaks, I might just show
you what courage really looks like."
James realized he still had his hand sticking out. "Yeah," he replied,
dropping his arm to his side. "Well, good luck with that, then. Have it your
way." He turned away, but Scorpius spoke again, stopping him.
"I'm not so sure about little Albus as a Slytherin though," he said
conversationally. "At first, I was concerned they might just eat him alive.
But now it looks like I was wrong. Little Potter boy might have a bit more
Slytherin in him than I thought. ASP, indeed."

James looked back at Scorpius, who was still grinning crookedly. "I
thought you didn't even know our first names."
Scorpius shrugged languidly. "I guess I was lying," he replied. "That
was back when I thought I was going to be a Slytherin. Now that I'm a
member of the scarlet and gold, I'll make it a point to always be truthful,
won't I?"
Amazingly, a few of the Gryffindors chuckled at that. Scorpius reached
for his goblet and raised it, as if saluting.
"Here's to new legacies," he announced, raising one eyebrow
sardonically. "There's a toast you can agree with, right, Potter?"

James finally caught up with Albus as he was leaving the Great Hall
in the company of his new housemates. Albus appeared to be quite popular
among the Slytherins as they gathered around him, laughing raucously.
"Really, it's not all it's cracked up to be," Albus was saying. "I mean
sure, growing up the son of the most famous wizard in the world has its
perks, but it doesn't get me any special privileges here at Hogwarts.
Especially with you lot, eh?"
There was another round of laughter. Obviously, Albus was making the
most of his rather shocking house assignment. James shouldered his way
into the crowd and grabbed Albus' elbow.
"Hey, easy, big brother," Albus called as James pulled him away. "This

is my brother, James, everybody. He gets his bossiness from Mum's side of
the family. Don't start the party without me, eh?"
Albus turned back to James near the base of the stairs. He pulled his
elbow out of James' grip, his face turning annoyed. "What's the big idea,
James? I want to see my new rooms."
"Slytherin!" James hissed, glancing back over his shoulder at the
waiting gang of students. Tabitha Corsica smiled crookedly and nodded in
his direction.
"Yeah, Slytherin," Albus shrugged. "Same as you've been saying all
summer."
James turned back. "Don't pretend I talked you into this, Al. You knew
I was just ribbing you. Tell me the truth. Did you do this just to spite
Scorpius?"
Albus rolled his eyes. "Get off my back, James. How was I to know
Malfoy was going to get Sorted into Gryffindor?"
"I saw the way you looked back at him when you went up to the dais.
You wanted to show him up! That's a stupid reason to go to Slytherin.
Come on, Al! This affects your whole school life! You're a Slytherin, now!"
"I didn't choose this, you know," Albus said, lowering his voice and
looking James in the eye. "The Sorting Hat does the Sorting. That's what it's
for, James."
"But Dad said—"
"Yeah, well, maybe things have changed. Or maybe the Hat didn't
think I wanted to be a Gryffindor bad enough. Either way, when I put it on,
the only thing that came into my head was a vision of me in the house of the
green and silver. And the truth is, for the first time ever, I kind of liked it."
James frowned. "But all summer long, you were completely dotty

about it. I mean really, Al, I wouldn't have wound you up so much about it
if it hadn't gotten such a rise out of you."
Albus shrugged and looked around, taking in the stairway and the
Entrance Hall. "Maybe I did it just to spite you, then. That'll teach you to
rag on me about stuff. I might just go and do it after all, eh?"
James grimaced, exasperated.
"Don't get your knickers in a twist, James," Albus said, clapping James
on the shoulder. "Time's have changed, haven't they? The other thing Dad
told me on the platform was that if I did become a Slytherin, they'd have
gotten themselves a brilliant new member. You can be king of Gryffindor
House, all right? I'll work my magic in Slytherin and we'll have all of
Hogwarts by the tail."
James shook his head but smiled a little. "You are the boldest little
twonk ever, Al. I almost believe you. Are you sure you know what you're
doing?"
"Not in the least," Albus nodded gravely. "But it's never stopped me
before. Listen, don't tell Mum and Dad about this yet. I want to tell them
myself, right?"
James grimaced. "What do you think I am, a squealer?"
"Well, you did squeal on Ted and Victoire at the station this morning."
"I told you—"
Albus raised his hands, backing away. "That's between you and your
conscience, big brother. I best be getting back to my new housemates.
Ralph says they have sweet broom cakes and real Turkish Delight down
there first night. I can't wait to have that flagon of Butterbeer in front of the
snake's head fireplace, eh?"
James sighed as Albus rejoined his new housemates heading down into

the cellars. As he turned to climb the staircase, he was met by Rose.
"Ralph says he'll keep an eye on Albus," Rose said reassuringly.
"Frankly, Slytherin probably is a better fit for him. He's always been a bit of
a wild horse, you know."
"Yeah, I know," James agreed. "I just didn't expect it to really happen.
It feels really weird having a Potter in Slytherin."
"Are you jealous?"
"What?" James exclaimed, looking sideways at Rose as they reached
the landing. "Why in the world would I be jealous?"
Rose shrugged noncommittally. "I hear the Gremlins have a little
something planned for tonight."
"How do you know about that already?"
"Well," Rose replied self-deprecatingly, "it was partly my idea. They
liked it so much they asked me to come along. In all fairness though, it
wouldn't have been possible without you."
James remembered last year's first night when the Gremlins had
bewitched him to look like a green alien and convinced him to clamber out
of a makeshift flying saucer, much to the amazement of a local Muggle
farmer. "They aren't still raising the Wocket are they?"
"No, apparently they retired the Wocket when Ted graduated. Mugglebaiting is pretty tasteless, really, and besides, it's not much good now that
the Headmaster has seen it and knows where it was hidden."
"You sure know an awful lot about this, Rose."
"Apparently, being a Weasley carries a lot of weight in certain circles,"
she replied happily.

As they entered the common room, James couldn't help smiling. The
familiar babble of laughter and conversation filled the room like a cauldron.
The bust of Godric Gryffindor swooped dangerously overhead as a group of
fifth- and sixth-years played Winkles and Augers with it. Cameron Creevey
had already arrived and was sitting with a few other new Gryffindors on a
sofa near the crackling fireplace. Cameron noticed James and his eyes
widened a little. He nudged the girl next to him.
"Hey, James," Heth Thomas, one of Gryffindor's Beaters, called from
across the room. "You going to try out for the Quidditch team again this
year? We're taking odds on how big a hole you'll make in the pitch."
"I'd be careful getting in on that action," James replied, grinning. "I've
been practicing this summer."
"Right," Graham interjected, "whenever you weren't grounded from
your broom by your dad, I hear."
This was greeted with hoots of good-natured laughter. James made a
sarcastic mime of laughing along. The truth of it was that he enjoyed the
ribbing. He was looking forward to the try-outs. The more they expected
him to repeat last year's performance, the better he'd look.
Noah, Petra, Damien, and Sabrina were crowded around a table in the
corner of the rowdy common room. Damien and Sabrina were busily
hunched over a large sheet of parchment, quills in their hands. They
appeared to be arguing in hushed tones, pointing at bits of the parchment.
Noah and Petra looked up and waved James and Rose over.
"We've not got much time," Noah said. "But fortunately, that's Damien
and Sabrina's problem. Besides, what can go wrong? We've got a Weasley
back at Hogwarts again. All is well with the world."
"How do you spell 'forsooth'?" Sabrina asked without looking up.
"It won't matter," Damien said tersely, "if we don't know, nobody will."

"What's the plan?" James asked, plopping into a chair nearby.
Noah looked at Rose, then back at James. "We think it'd be best if you
didn't know. For now."
"You'll thank us later, James," Rose agreed.
"What?" James said, frowning. "Why in the world shouldn't I know?"
"Trust us, James," Petra said. "It'll be much better for you if you can
honestly claim ignorance."
"That's what Ted said last year at the debate, too," James grumbled. He
opened his mouth to protest further, but a sudden change in the atmosphere
distracted him. Someone else was entering the common room. James
glanced around to see who it was.
Scorpius Malfoy clambered awkwardly through the portrait hole,
getting his robes caught on the uneven bricks. He straightened and yanked
at his robes, irritated. Finally, he turned and took in the room, his pale face
grim.
"Quaint," he drawled. "How perfectly whimsical. I expect we'll be
roasting marshmallows over the fireplace and singing happy sing-alongs
round about midnight, yes? Perhaps someone could point me in the
direction of the dormitories."
"Oi," Graham answered, hooking a thumb over his shoulder. "It's up
those stairs, Malfoy. We'll save you a marshmallow."
James watched Scorpius hoist his satchel and stalk across the floor,
threading between the suddenly silent students that filled the room. Hugo
Paulson, a huge seventh year, was lounging in a high-back chair with his
legs sprawled in front of him, blocking Scorpius' path. Scorpius stopped,
waiting for Hugo to move. Hugo pretended to notice Malfoy for the first

time. He grinned and moved his legs. Scorpius rolled his eyes and
continued on.
James knew he should warn Scorpius, but he couldn't quite bring
himself to do it. The rest of the Gryffindors watched with bright, avid eyes
as the pale boy scowled once back over his shoulder, and then disappeared
into the dimness of the staircase.
He made it to the fourth step before the alarm sounded. The stair steps
flattened, transforming into a rough stone slide. Scorpius struggled for
purchase on the smooth surface, but it was no use. He slid back down into
the common room and crashed to the floor. There was a roar of laughter.
Hugo jumped up, braying uproariously, and grabbed Scorpius' arm, hoisting
him to his feet.
"The age-old girls' dorm swap. We should really get some signs,
shouldn't we? It's all in good fun, Malfoy," Hugo announced, clapping the
boy on the back. "We got to initiate you somehow, don't we?"
Scorpius retrieved his satchel and shot a look of cold fury at Graham.
Without a word, he stalked back across the room to the opposite staircase.
"That was mean," Rose said mildly after Scorpius had gone.
"He took it better than I expected, really," Noah commented.
"Knowing his kind, I'd have thought he'd Avada Kedavra somebody just for
spite."
"He's probably up there putting the Cruciatus Curse on some spiders
even now," Graham replied.
"Stop it, all of you," Petra said. "You're as bad as they are. There's a
very good reason that the Sorting Hat sent him here. Give him a chance to
prove it."
"It was just a joke, Petra," Graham muttered. "Hugo did worse to me at
least once a week last year."

Gradually, the babble of voices returned to the room. Damien and
Sabrina went back to their strange, hushed work. Rose leaned over to
James.
"Do you think Petra's right?" she asked quietly. "Do you think he really
does belong in Gryffindor?"
James thought back to last year when Ralph had gotten sorted into
Slytherin. James had been certain that it had been a mistake. Now, knowing
more about Ralph, he saw that the Hat might have known best after all.
He answered Rose, "Hagrid says the Hat knows what it's doing. I
mean, you can't fool the Sorting Hat, can you?"
Rose didn't seem convinced. "Somebody fooled the Goblet of Fire,
back in our parents' day. Anything's possible."
"But why would he want to come to Gryffindor?"
Rose shrugged. "I just hope he really is the real thing. Because if he's
not, things are going to get very ugly. Especially after tonight."
"What's that mean?" James asked suspiciously.
Rose ignored him. "Why don't you run up and check on him?"
"Blimey, Rose! First, Cousin Lucy guilts me about how I'm supposed
to look after Albus, now you want me to go nursemaid Scorpius-bleedingMalfoy?"
"Just do it, James. By the time you come back, I bet Damien and
Sabrina will be done and it'll be time to go."
"Sheesh," James said, climbing to his feet. "I'd never have pegged you
for fancying the bad boy type."

"I don't fancy him," she frowned. "Just make sure he's going to be busy
up there for a while, why don't you?"
James grumbled to himself as he crossed to the boys' dormitory stairs.
"It's just James. Don't stun me or anything," he called up as he climbed
the steps. To his surprise, he found Scorpius in the second years' dormitory
rather than the first years'. "Hey! That's my bed!"
James stopped at the top of the staircase, pointing. Scorpius had
shoved James' trunk aside haphazardly and put his own trunk at the foot of
the bed. He glanced up dismissively as he unpacked his things.
"Is it really?" Scorpius replied indolently. "Does it have your name on
it?"
"As a matter of fact, it bloody well does," James exclaimed. "I carved
it right there on the headboard plain as the nose on your pasty white face!"
"Where?" Scorpius said, squinting at the headboard. He produced his
wand from his robes and aimed it lazily with his wrist. A flash of purple
light burst across the head of the bed. When it was gone, James' name had
vanished, buried under an ugly black burn mark. "I don't see it. Maybe
you're a bit confused."
Scorpius turned, looking about the room. He pointed his wand again,
producing another flash of purple light.
"There," he said, turning back to his trunk. "Now that bed has your
name on it. Happy?"
James stalked over to a bed on the opposite side of the room. Glowing
purple letters were scrawled across the headboard. In gothic script, they
spelled 'WHINY POTTER GIT'.
"Look, you can't just…," James began, and then stopped, leaning in

toward the letters. "And how'd you even do that? That was a nonverbal
spell!"
"Is this better?" Scorpius asked, pointing his wand once more.
"Mobiliarcha."
James' trunk shot across the floor, barely missing his legs. It struck the
bed and burst open, belching half of James' things. Scorpius grinned
crookedly as he levitated his books out of his own trunk. He floated them
neatly into position on the windowsill.
James spluttered, "Look, Malfoy, this isn't even your dorm! You're a
first year! You can't just move in wherever you want!"
"Seems that the first years' dorm is unusually full this year," Malfoy
replied without looking at James. "My fellow first year Gryffindors
informed me that I'd have to find lodging elsewhere. Frankly, I don't care
where I stay in this benighted tower, but if my being here annoys you, then
I believe I'll stay. If you don't like it, speak to the headmaster. He's a mate of
yours, after all, isn't he?"
"They were just winding you up, you prat," James exclaimed
hopelessly.
"Is it time for the sing-along yet?" Scorpius asked, finally glancing at
James and pocketing his wand. "Or did you just come up to see how a
wizard unpacks?"
James turned on his heels and tramped angrily down the stairs.
"If whatever you have in mind has anything to do with Malfoy," he
said as he plopped back into the chair near the table, "it's probably too
nice."
"That's the spirit," Damien replied without looking up from his
parchment. James peered at it. He could see that Damien and Sabrina were

drawing something, but it was covered in arrows, geometric scribbles, and
scrawled notes.
"We can thank old Professor Stonewall for this one," Noah grinned.
"Who says Technomancy has no practical purpose? Come on, it's time."

"If we still had your dad's Cloak, we wouldn't need a lookout," Damien
explained reasonably. "But since we don't, that's your job."
Sabrina was virtually bouncing with excitement. The quill in her thick
hair wobbled. "I'm going down to the landing," she announced quietly.
"Catch up as soon as you can. You have to do the scriptey part."
Damien nodded. Noah, Rose, Petra, and Sabrina darted down the stairs
at the end of the corridor.
James sighed. "Fine, I'm the lookout. What do I do if somebody
comes?"
"All right, this is your story: you were going to the bathroom and you
got lost," Damien replied. "Pretend that you're doubled over with the runs
or something. Groan a lot, really loud. We'll hear you and know someone is
coming."
James was appalled. "That is so wrong on so many levels! For one
thing, I'm a second-year! How is it I got lost on the way to the bathroom?"
"Use your imagination," Damien said blandly. "Maybe you have to go

so bad that you're delirious or something. Just be sure to groan really loud
so we can hear you."
James opened his mouth to protest but Damien was already trotting
down the stairs as lightly as he could. Resigning himself to his duty, James
leaned against the wall and watched. He still didn't know what the Gremlins
were up to, but he knew it had something to do with the new Heracles
window. That was what Rose had meant when she'd said they couldn't have
done it without him. He had broken that window last year, knocking a
Muggle intruder through it during a midnight chase. Filch had fumed that
there'd be no way to replace the window, and he'd been right. Fortunately,
magic being what it is, it wasn't necessary to manufacture a perfect
duplicate. The school had simply procured a special kind of stained glass
window with magically imprintable glass. Petra explained that the window
could be charmed so that the glass represented any desired pattern. Filch,
being rather a traditionalist, had seen to it that the window represented the
old Heracles window right down to the crack in Heracles' right little finger.
James determined to get a peek at what the Gremlins were doing to the
window. Carefully, he straightened and tiptoed to the edge of the staircase.
He could hear Sabrina and Damien whispering animatedly, but he couldn't
see anything. James turned to go back to his hiding place and ran face-first
into Merlin's beard.
"Bleah!" James spat, recoiling. "What are you trying to do, sneaking
up on a bloke like that?"
Merlin's face was as impassive as ever. "I take it you are on sentinel
duty, Mr. Potter?"
James deflated. "I was until I got a face full of beard. What is that stuff
you put in it? Smells like the stuff Mum cleans pots with."
"Fear not, Mr. Potter. I shall assure anyone who asks that you were
positively prostrate with bowel difficulties. I came to ask a small favor of
you. You do not have to do it, but if you do, I will consider it compensation
for the points that were deducted from your house."

James scrubbed at his face, shuddering, trying to get Merlin's beard oil
off. "Yeah, sure, what do you have in mind?"
"I need you to convince Mr. Deedle and a third person of your
choosing to help me retrieve some items for my office. They are essential to
my work, but I require some assistance in acquiring them. You might say
they have been in storage for quite some time."
"Like a thousand years or so?" James replied, feeling piqued. "I didn't
know they had rental lockers for that long. How do you know your stuff's
still there?"
"That is my concern, Mr. Potter, not yours. May I assume your help?"
"Doesn't sound like you need us," James muttered. "Why don't you get
some of the other teachers to help you?"
"Because I am a cautious man," Merlin answered, smiling slightly. "I'd
prefer to keep my inventory somewhat private, as there are those who might
question the origins of some of my tools. This is why I have specifically
chosen you and Mr. Deedle. You two have already proven, perhaps to a
fault, that you know how to manage secrets."
"So I get Gryffindor's ten points back if we help you get your stuff?
Sounds fair enough. I'm guessing that the deal only counts if we don't tell
anyone though, right?" James said, looking up at the big man.
Merlin nodded. "Thus, you should choose your third helper carefully.
We leave tomorrow afternoon. Meet me at the entrance to the old rotunda,
and be prepared to walk."
Merlin turned to leave, his great robe swaying about him.
"Uh, Headmaster?" James called, keeping his voice low so as not to
alert the Gremlins in the landing below. Merlin stopped and half turned
back to James, one eyebrow raised. James asked, "Any sign of the Borley?"

Merlin shook his head. "But fear not, Mr. Potter. I have every reason to
believe yours is the last one. It will show itself in due course. Perhaps next
time, you will be better equipped to handle it."
A moment later, the big man had gone, somehow melting into the
shadows of the corridor, his footfalls making no noise whatsoever. There
was definitely something creepy about the ancient wizard. He seemed to
carry a sense of wildness and night air with him, even inside the halls of the
school. Obviously, Merlin had secret ways of knowing what was going on
in the halls. After all, he'd known exactly where to find James and what he
was up to. It occurred to James that it'd probably be a challenge to sneak
past Merlin even with the Invisibility Cloak on.
Shortly, the Gremlins tiptoed up the staircase again. Rose was the last
up, and she was covering her mouth to stifle a giggle.
As they threaded their way back to the Gryffindor common room,
Petra asked, "Did you see anyone, James?"
James glanced at her, considering. After a moment, he shook his head.
"No one worth mentioning."
It was the closest thing to the truth he could think of.
The next morning, as James was tramping down the stairway to
breakfast, he was stopped by a noisy crowd gathered around the landing.
Filch stood in the middle of it, staring up at the Heracles window. His
cheeks were livid red and his eyebrows worked angrily. James could see the
window clearly from his vantage point halfway up the staircase. The image
of Heracles was gone. In its place was a fairly good representation of
Salazar Slytherin. Strangely, he seemed to be grinning giddily and skipping
down a winding path. He was arm in arm with a boy with unruly dark hair:
Albus. A banner floated over their heads containing the words 'A MATCH
MADE IN HEAVEN?'. Worse, behind them, lying stricken on the path, was
a pale boy with sharp features and white-blonde hair. The caricature of

Scorpius had a word balloon coming out of its mouth. It read, 'FORSOOTH
SALAZAR! BEHOLD MINE BREAKING HEART!'
"It's a line from a classic wizard love sonnet," Damien said smugly as
he crowded in next to James. "One in ten people will probably get it, but it
appeals to me somehow."
"You are such a geek, Damien," Sabrina said affectionately.

The sun presided over an unusually warm afternoon as James met
Ralph near the great arch of the old rotunda. Beams of golden light made
stripes across the marble floor and partway up the remains of the statues of
the original founders. Nothing but their feet and parts of their legs remained
after all these years. The broken bits were worn smooth from centuries of
curious hands.
"She's coming," James said as he trotted to a stop next to his friend.
"She just takes forever to get ready. What is it about girls and getting
ready?"
Ralph shrugged. "Fiera Hutchins says that girls take longer to get
ready because they actually get ready. She says boys just matt their hair
down with spit, slap on some cologne, and call it done."
"So what's wrong with that?" James muttered.
Rose approached them from behind. She was looking cool and, James
had to admit, much more prepared than he was. "I told you I was right
behind you," she admonished.

"What's in the basket?" Ralph asked, nodding at the small satchel
slung over her shoulder.
"Let's see," Rose said, cocking her hip. "My wand, some water, a few
biscuits, a Bug-repellent Charm, a field knife, a pair of Omnioculars, an
extra pair of socks, and some sunglasses." She looked back and forth
between Ralph and James. "What? You said we were supposed to come
prepared to walk!"
James shook his head. "How can you be so like your mum and your
dad at the same time?"
"Just fortunate, I guess," Rose sniffed.
"We're supposed to be prepared to walk?" Ralph asked, furrowing his
brow. "Is that anything like hiking?"
James set out across the rotunda floor. "Come on, Merlin said he'd
meet us at the entrance, and when he gives directions, he means them."
"I don't even own hiking shoes," Ralph lamented, following.
The three stepped out into the warmth of the afternoon. At one time,
centuries ago, the rotunda entrance had been the main entry to Hogwarts
castle. Now it was virtually unused. The portico's huge doors were almost
always left open, looking out over a long field of weeds and heather, ending
at the edge of the Forest.
"Those are creepy," Rose said, looking back into the gloom of the
rotunda at the remains of the statues. "They must have been enormous
before they were broken. Whatever happened to them?"
"The statues of the founders?" James replied. "They were destroyed. A
long time ago. In a battle or something."
"You don't know, do you?" Rose challenged, raising her eyebrows.

James didn't, but he wasn't about to admit it. He made a show of
watching for Merlin.
Ralph frowned thoughtfully. "I wonder what ever happened to the
pieces. You think they're still here, stored away in a cellar or something?"
"I wouldn't be surprised," Rose agreed. "There's room enough here for
them to keep everything. They say the original founders themselves are
buried here somewhere, although nobody knows where. All except Salazar
Slytherin."
Ralph blinked at her. "Why isn't he buried here?"
"I thought you said you read Hogwarts: A History?"
Ralph turned to James. "Is she always like this? If so, remind me not to
ask her any more questions."
"He's not buried here," James answered, "because he had a big row
with the other founders and got kicked out of the school."
Ralph grimaced. "I probably don't want to know what that was about,
do I?"
"I'm sure you can guess," James replied. "It's a good thing times have
changed, eh?"
"Times never change," a deep voice said. James glanced up and saw
Merlin climbing the steps from the field below. "But people do. Greetings,
my friends. Are we ready to disembark?"
"If that means are we ready to hike," Ralph said tentatively, "I'm not
sure I'm prepared to answer that."
Merlin turned on the steps and began to descend again into the grassy

weeds at the bottom. James looked at Rose and Ralph, then shrugged and
ran down the steps to follow.
"So how are we getting there, Headmaster?" Rose called. "Portkey?
Broom? Side-Along Apparition?"
"I thought Mr. Potter had already informed you," Merlin replied
without looking back. "We are going to walk."
"The whole way?" Ralph said, tripping over a patch of heather.
Merlin seemed to be enjoying himself. "It'll become easier as we go,
Mr. Deedle. In my day—and I admit that that day was quite a long time ago
indeed—people walked virtually everywhere. It is good for wizards and
witches to move within nature. It reminds us of who we are."
"I know who I am," Ralph grumbled. "I'm a bloke with cruddy shoes
and a preference for food that comes in wrappers."
They reached the edge of the Forest and Merlin stepped into it without
breaking his stride. There was no path, but Merlin seemed to know where to
step. He barely made a footprint or bent a stalk of grass. James paused for a
moment at the edge of the woods. Merlin wasn't slowing, and James knew
that if he didn't keep up, he would quickly lose the big wizard in the density
of the trees. He plunged in after him, trying as well as he could to match
Merlin's giant stride.
"Hold up a minute," Rose called, plucking burs from her jeans as she
walked. "Not all of us can commune with the oneness of nature and all
that."
As they progressed, however, James noticed a strange thing. In some
small way, he did seem to be connecting with the woods around him. It was
as if the Forest blended with Merlin as he moved, opening for him and
closing up again once he was past. If James, Ralph, and Rose kept close
enough, they travelled in the wake of that opening. Briars bent away from
them, streams sprouted smooth, dry stepping stones, and even the grass and

brush laid down flat, softening the ground for their feet. No branches
snagged them despite the fact that the woods were exceedingly dense. Even
the reddening sunlight seemed to wend its way through the thick treetops,
laying down a trail of light for them.
"Hey, James," Ralph said quietly, "how far do you think we've gone?"
"We've only been at it for half an hour or so," James replied, glancing
up at the sun. "We can't have gone much further than Hogsmeade,
depending on what direction we're heading in. It's hard to tell, isn't it?"
Ralph nodded. "Yeah, it is. I swear it feels like we've been walking
only a few minutes and about a week at the same time."
"Your mind is playing tricks on you," Rose said. "It happens on long
trips. The monotony gets to you. We're probably hardly out of sight of the
castle. If only the trees would thin out a bit."
As Rose spoke, Merlin stepped into a blaze of orange light. James
squinted as he followed, then gasped, catching himself and throwing out his
hands to stop Ralph and Rose. They bumped him from behind.
"Hey," Rose replied, dropping her satchel, "why are we stopping—"
Her voice trailed away as she looked up. A blindingly beautiful sunset
filled the view before them, blazing with oranges and pinks and deep
lavenders, but that was only half of it. Fifteen feet in front of James' feet,
the stony ground fell away, plunging dizzyingly to a rocky beach pounded
with surf. Mist roared up on the wind, wetting their faces and beading on
their eyelashes.
"Is that the ocean?" Rose asked breathlessly. "That's impossible!"
A voice called indistinctly. James tore his eyes from the sight below
him and saw Merlin some distance away. He was standing on a narrow path
that threaded along the crags of the cliff. He waved for them to follow.
After a few awed moments, they did.

The roar of the ocean and the whipping wind filled their ears as they
skirted the cliff, catching up with Merlin. While they were still some
distance behind him, Rose slipped in next to James.
Keeping her voice low, she said, "James, why did you ask me to come
along on this trip?"
"That's easy," James replied, treading as quickly as he could on the
uneven path along the cliff. "I had to pick someone who could keep a
secret. Besides, I knew you had some doubts about Merlin. I wanted you to
see him up close and personal."
"I have to tell you that so far I'm not feeling much better about him,"
Rose confided. "Somehow, he just walked us about a hundred kilometers in
a half hour. But still, I'm just wondering, James: why didn't you ask Albus
to come?"
James glanced over his shoulder at Rose. "I don't know. You were the
first person I thought of."
"I just think it's curious, that's all."
Ralph had caught up to them. "Why'd you ask me to come?" he asked,
panting a little.
"Merlin asked for you specifically, Ralph. He said he knew you and
me were good at keeping secrets."
Rose frowned. "I want to know who he's keeping secrets from."
"Shh," James hissed as they neared Merlin.
He had stopped at the crown of a steep, rocky promontory. As the three
climbed to meet him, they realized they were at the point of a narrow
peninsula. Only when they joined Merlin at the top did they see that the
peninsula extended ahead of them, making a natural bridge out over the

crashing surf far below. The peninsula was barely as wide as the path, with
a sheer drop on either side. At the far end, the stony bridge connected to an
enormous craggy monolith, nearly the same size and shape as a Hogwarts
turret. The top seemed roughly flat and was covered with blowing grass.
"We're not going out on that," Ralph stated flatly. "I mean, we're not,
right? That would be totally mad."
Even as he finished speaking, Merlin stepped out onto the rocky spine.
"Follow closely, my friends. It is less dangerous than it looks, but it is not
harmless. I will catch you if you fall, but let us work to avoid that
necessity."
Fortunately, James wasn't particularly afraid of heights. Keeping his
eyes on the large man striding easily along the narrow path, James stepped
forward to follow.
"Oh bugger," Ralph muttered from behind, his voice almost lost in the
whipping, salty wind.
It was actually quite exhilarating, in a giddy, terrifying sort of way.
The wind shifted restlessly, tugging at James' sleeves and pant legs. He
knew he shouldn't look down, and yet he couldn't help studying the path,
watching for the firmest footing. Occasionally, James saw hints of
stonework and large bricks embedded in the path as if it had been shored up
in the distant past, perhaps repeatedly. Dry weeds grew sparsely in the
rocks, hissing in the incessant, shifting wind. On either side, the surf
pounded and boomed against the rocks far below.
"This is insane," Ralph called in a high, wavering voice. "What do we
do if we fall off the side? Call out, 'Oh Headmaster, I'm plummeting on the
right side, a little help when you get a mo'?'"
James thought about how Merlin had found him in the halls the
previous night, and how he'd known exactly what they were up to. "I think
he has ways of knowing what's going on. Don't worry about it, Ralph."

Rose, directly behind James, said, "That's fabulously reassuring."
Finally, the path began to widen. The cliffs were obscured as they
walked through a sort of gate made by a tumble of worn boulders and scree.
James finally allowed himself to look around as he stepped into the clearing
atop the monstrous monolith. It was indeed covered in long grass and brush,
but it wasn't entirely flat. Instead, it was vaguely funnel-shaped, dipping to
a hidden depression in the middle. Merlin was standing in a narrow path
that threaded down into the center.
"Exhilarating," he called heartily. He looked grimly happy, his cloak
whipping freely about his legs and his beard streaming in the wind.
"Actually," James answered, "yeah, it was!"
Rose and Ralph caught up and gathered near the wizard.
"Are we there yet?" Ralph asked, raking his hair out of his eyes with
his fingers.
Merlin turned and looked into the middle of the plateau, which dipped
out of sight. "We are. Watch your step from this point. It gets a bit tricky."
"Oh, good," Ralph muttered helplessly.
"Buck up, Ralph," Rose said, tying her hair back with a short length of
ribbon. "This is the best adventure you'll never be able to tell anyone
about."
"I don't know why everyone seems to think I like adventures. I never
even read adventure stories."
"Stay close," Merlin said again as he began to descend the path.
As the four worked their way down the funnel-shaped plateau, the dry
grass began to give way. James stopped for a moment as the true nature of

the monolith became apparent. The center grew steeper and steeper,
dropping deep into a natural pit fifty feet across. The path transitioned to
huge stone steps, and then to a narrow stairway carved around the inside of
the pit. The stairs were obviously ancient, rounded and slick with moss. The
heart of the pit was filled with ocean water, roiling and heaving in and out
of a hundred fissures worn through the stone. The boom of the waves was
nearly deafening.
Finally, just above the level of the surf, the stairway met a large cave.
Merlin led the three into the dimness. He stopped and tapped his staff on the
rocky floor, lighting it. Purplish light filled the space, making hard shadows
in every crag and crack.
"Nice hiding place," James said, whistling.
"It sure is," Rose agreed, "considering it's underwater half the day.
We're in the middle of low tide right now."
"Is that where you have your stuff hidden?" Ralph asked, pointing
toward a large door-shaped hole in the rear of the cave wall. "There's
writing over the door, but I can't read it."
Rose peered at it, stepping closer. "It's Welsh, isn't it?"
"It's an old form of what you'd call Welsh, I suppose," Merlin said,
approaching the door. "Roughly translated, it reads, 'This is the cache of
Merlinus Ambrosius; do not enter on pain of death.'"
Ralph squinted at the barely legible letters. "So much for secret riddles
and magical passwords."
"I do not believe in toying with the lives of treasure seekers," Merlin
replied. "The mention of my name was enough to repel most who came this
far. Those that ventured further deserved fair warning."
"Isn't there some sort of key or something?" Rose asked.

"No, Miss Weasley. The trick is not to get in. In fact, quite the reverse.
Which is why you and Mr. Deedle will wait out here."
Ralph brightened. "That's the first good news I've heard since we
started this trip. But why?"
"Your wand is a fragment of my staff," Merlin smiled grimly. "Thus, it
is the only other magical instrument on the earth that can reverse the
doorway."
Ralph nodded, waving his hand. "Good enough for me. Just tell me
what to do when the time comes. Happy pot-holing."
Rose asked, "What about me?"
Merlin produced something from the depths of his robes and handed it
to her. It was a small mirror with an ornate golden frame. "Do you know
how to make an Occido Beam?"
James saw Rose struggle not to roll her eyes. "I know how to reflect
the sun with a mirror, yes."
Merlin nodded and looked at James. "Follow me, Mr. Potter, and stay
close."
With that, he turned and stepped through the doorway. His staff lit the
interior of the chamber with its purple glow. James glanced at Ralph and
Rose, shrugged, and followed Merlin into the cavern.
Immediately, his footsteps crunched unpleasantly.
"Ugh!" he exclaimed. "Bones!"
The floor was covered thickly with tiny skeletons. The remains of
birds, fish and rodents were piled several inches deep. Merlin didn't pay
them any attention.

"An unfortunate cost," he said, moving deeper into the cavern. "The
one-way stone is rather unforgiving. My rune-warnings are rather less
effective now than they were a few centuries ago."
"You made warnings for the birds and rats?" James asked.
Merlin looked back at him. "Of course, Mr. Potter. The creatures do
not enter to thieve, but merely for shelter and food. I embedded a Hex of
Dread in the stone of this place. It told their small minds that there was no
good thing to be found here, and to stay away. I underestimated the
longevity of those hexes however. I am not happy to be responsible for the
loss of these creatures. I will repay the earth for their sacrifice."
"What do you mean by 'one-way stone'?" James asked, but as he
turned back toward the doorway, he saw for himself. The entry was gone,
replaced by rough, seamless rock. By all appearances, James and Merlin
were trapped inside a sealed cave. He shuddered and hugged himself,
glancing around the dark, craggy space. Something caught his eye.
"Er," he said, trying to keep his voice calm, "that's not the bones of a
bird or a rat, is it?"
Merlin followed James' gaze and saw the human skeleton leaning
against a dark alcove. The skeleton was draped with the remains of rough
armor. A rusted sword lay near the skeleton's hand.
"I wouldn't get too close, Mr. Potter," Merlin warned mildly as James
took a step nearer the skeleton, morbidly fascinated.
"Wow," James breathed, "there are still rings on the fingers. And hair
on the skull. Gah, there's the remains of a mustache! Who do you think—"
The skeleton suddenly lunged forward, throwing up its arms and
waving the remains of the decrepit sword. James leapt backwards, tumbling
into Merlin.

"Avaunt!" the skeleton cried, waving its arms and swiveling its head.
"Reveal yourself lest I run you through for sport!"
"It's all right, James," Merlin said wryly, helping James get his feet
under him. "Just stay back from it." Then, to the skeleton, he said, "You
cannot see us because you have no eyes, Farrigan."
"Merlinus!" the skeleton cried. "Where are you, you devil's son? How
dare you trap me?"
"How dare you breach my boundary and attempt to steal my cache, my
old friend?"
"Friend, pah!" the skeleton spat. Its jawbone squeaked as it spoke.
"You were quit of the world. Dead! What good was it to you?"
"You hoped I was dead, but you knew otherwise. My cache was
bequeathed to no one but me, either way. Austramaddux made you well
aware of that."
"Austramaddux is a mongrel cur," the skeleton of Farrigan growled.
"I'll put his head on my wall for this trickery. And what mean you that I
have no eyes? It is merely dark. Light your staff if you are Merlinus, curse
you."
Merlin looked at James, his eyes hard. "He will be released from his
bond to this world when we leave. It was part of the curse of anyone who
dared breach this place that they should remain until my return. Now that
that time is come, the curse will end. Can you bear to wait with him? He is
quite harmless as long as you keep your distance."
James looked at the skeleton. It lolled against the wall, working to pull
its leg bones together and make them work. It muttered squeakily to itself.
James swallowed.
"Yeah, I guess. How long will you be?"

"Mere minutes," Merlin replied, then he raised his voice. "Miss
Weasley, can you hear me?"
Rose's voice came through the invisible entrance clearly. "I'm right
here. I'm looking right at you through the door. What's going on in there?"
"Nothing consequential. Can you direct the Occido Beam now? The
waning sunlight should be finding its way through a large crack to the left
of the cave mouth."
James heard Rose's footsteps as she walked away. A moment later, a
narrow beam of sunlight speared the dusty air of the cavern, penetrating the
one-way stone of the doorway.
"Very good, Miss Weasley," Merlin said. "Up just a bit, please."
The beam of sunlight pierced the depths of the cave. It bobbed and
roamed as Merlin directed Rose, carefully aligning the beam. Finally, it lit
upon a shiny burnished symbol embedded in a far distant wall. It flared
brightly and suddenly, amazingly, a long golden cord dropped out of the
beam of sunlight.
"Thank you, Miss Weasley," Merlin called, reaching to collect the end
of the cord. "You have done exceptionally well. Whatever you or Mr.
Deedle do from this point on, under no circumstances should you enter the
cavern, regardless of what you hear."
James felt a chill as Merlin turned to him.
"Your duty is very simple, Mr. Potter, but absolutely essential. You
must hold the end of this cord."
James took the cord in his hands as Merlin handed it to him. It was
thin, finely woven from bright golden threads. "All I have to do is hold it?"
Merlin nodded, maintaining eye contact with James. "But be sure,

James Potter, as long as you hold this cord, you hold my life in your hands.
You cannot let go for any reason until I return. Do you understand?"
James frowned, puzzled. He nodded. Without another word, Merlin
turned and walked into the dimmer recesses of the cave, holding his staff
ahead of him. The cave was apparently rather deeper than James had
initially believed. As the wizard strode slowly away, his staff illuminated a
much larger cavern connected to the one James stood in. The floor was very
dark, nearly black. Strangely, Merlin was walking on the golden cord,
placing each foot carefully on its length. The cord stretched into the depths
of the cavern, disappearing into darkness. With a start, James saw that the
floor of the larger cavern was not simply dark, as he had initially thought. It
wasn't there at all. Merlin was walking on the cord alone, suspended over an
apparently bottomless abyss.
There was a dry chuffing sound and James glanced over at the
skeleton. It appeared to be laughing.
"Off to get his treasures, is he?" it said. "Left you in the lurch,
methinks. Favor me with your name, oh demon."
"I'm not a demon," James said. "My name is James."
"Ah, a great name, that is. Tell me, Master James, if you are not a
servant demon, why do you hold the son of the devil's cord?"
James shook his head. He knew he shouldn't talk to the pathetic
Farrigan. It chuffed laughter again, wearily, and dropped its sword. The
rusted blade broke off the hilt and the skeleton drew a great sigh, crackling
its ribs.
"I have divined my state now," Farrigan said. "Austramaddux was
right about the trap. I have been here an age, have not I? I am long dead,
bound to this earth only by the curse of that abomination. And for what? I
came not to thieve, but to destroy. Can you understand that, oh James, who
holds the cord of the very man? I came to end it once and for all. But I have

failed, and now it is begun. It is a good thing I am dead after all, and shall
not see of it, yes?" The skeleton chuckled.
James' curiosity got the better of him. "What is it? What is begun?"
"Say not that you be such a fool as to be blind to Merlinus'
skullduggery," the skeleton replied, turning its head toward the sound of
James' voice. "You, who even now assist him in his aims. Tell me not that
you have not heard of the Curse, my young friend."
"I don't know what you're talking about," James answered. "Merlin's
not who you think he is. I don't know what he was like in your time, but
he's different now. He's good."
The skeleton threw itself forward, cackling and beating its bony thighs
with its hands. Finger joints broke away and pattered amongst the animal
bones. "If you believe that, then perhaps your world deserves what is to be
dealt it."
"What is it?" James asked, feeling simultaneously fearful and annoyed.
The skeleton of Farrigan stopped cackling. It twisted its head toward
James again, its blank eyes penetrating. "How can you not know that the
Gate is rent open? Merlinus has torn the curtain. His return to the world of
men is a rift, connecting the realms. Things have come through, and are
even now loose among men."
"The Borleys," James said to himself, considering.
The skeleton nodded. "But that is not all. It is coming. The Gatekeeper.
The Sentinel of Worlds! Merlinus is its Ambassador. Fool! Even now, you
hold the cord in your hands! Release it! Perhaps the Gate may still be shut!
Release the cord and rid the world of the Curse, for it is nearly complete!
Believe not the lies! Release it and send him to his deserved doom!"
"No," James said, gripping the cord tightly, as if his fingers might
betray him. He looked out along the length of the cord, but he could no

longer see Merlinus. He could feel no weight on the cord. He knew he
shouldn't pay any attention to the deranged skeleton. Obviously, Farrigan
was an ancient enemy of Merlinus. Probably, he had broken into the cavern
to steal the cache, as Merlin alleged, and become trapped by the one-way
stone. The skeleton was lying. There was no Curse. And yet…
What if the skeleton was telling the truth? James had been responsible
for bringing Merlin back into the world, duped by the horrible Madame
Delacroix and her accomplices. He, James, had been consulted about
whether or not Merlin should become the new Headmaster of Hogwarts. If
there was any truth to what the skeleton said, it would be entirely on James'
head. Perhaps it was destiny, then, that had placed the cord in his hands, the
cord that could cut Merlin off again, undoing all that James had unwittingly
done. Perhaps now was his only chance to set things right again.
"I sense your struggle, boy," the skeleton said quietly. "You know what
your purpose is, do you not? Do it. How hard can it be? It is no effort at all.
Simply let go. Your friends await you outside, ready to release you from
this place. They need not know what became of the wizard. Tell them he
simply fell and is no more. Only you will know what you have saved your
world from. Do it now. Do it while you still can."
James looked again. He could see Merlin now. He was returning along
the length of the cord, a small box in one hand, his staff held aloft in the
other. The cord was perfectly motionless as the big man placed his footsteps
on it. James could still feel not the slightest tension on the cord. He
squeezed it in his hands, thinking hard. Could he do it? Should he? Would
he ever have such a chance again?
"Do it, boy!" the skeleton of Farrigan whispered harshly, leaning
forward. "Close your eyes, do not watch, and let go!"
The cord was slick with sweat in James' hand. He almost did it. His
fingers twitched. And then he remembered something Merlin had said the
year before, shortly after he'd come back into the world. You have rather a
talent for looking beyond the flat of the mirror, James Potter, he'd told him.
That had been a compliment, James assumed, and it meant that he was not

easily fooled. Of course, Madame Delacroix had fooled him, but that had
required the use of a very carefully hexed voodoo doll. Merlin had implied
that words alone were not enough to dupe James.
Thinking that, James turned to the skeleton one last time. "How do I
know you are telling me the truth?"
The skeleton seemed to sputter. "You know by the evidence of your
own soul! You sense the rightness of my allegations! Now drop the cord!
End it!"
James narrowed his eyes. "You know, I don't think I will. I don't know
what things were like in your time, but in my world, we don't kill people
just because somebody says they're troublesome."
"Then your world deserves its own doom," the skeleton replied,
rattling back against the cavern wall. "I wash my hands of you. The
Doombringer is come."
James decided it was best not to argue with the skeleton. Now that he'd
made up his mind, he knew there was no point in it. He looked out along
the cord and saw that Merlin was nearly back. His face was still grim, but
there was a twinkle in his dark eyes.
"Our task is complete, Mr. Potter," he said as he stepped onto the stone
of the cave floor. "You may release the cord. We will require it no longer."
James let the cord drop to the floor. It slithered away and dropped
silently into the dark abyss. Sighing, James glanced over at the skeleton, but
it didn't move.
"I'd expect to hear no more from him," Merlin said quietly. "He has
done what he remained to do."
"What's that mean?" James said, turning to the wizard. "Why did I have to
hold that cord?"

"Trust, Mr. Potter," Merlin replied, smiling a little sorrowfully. "It is a
scarce commodity among those whose hearts are bent on evil. This is why
trust was the final test before my cache."
"You knew he would be here?" James nodded toward the skeleton.
"Him, or someone like him. His duty was to challenge your trust. After
all, it isn't really trust at all if there isn't a struggle."
James looked up at Merlin's face. "I almost let go," he said quietly.
"All I had to do was hold the cord, and I almost didn't do it."
Merlin nodded gravely. "Doing what is right is nearly always simple,
Mr. Potter. But it is never easy."
There didn't seem to be anything more to say. James and Merlin
walked back to the rough stone wall that bore the hidden door.
"Mr. Deedle," Merlin called, "by your leave, we shall come out now."
James heard Ralph's voice clearly through the apparently impenetrable
stone as if he was only a few feet away. "Er, all right then. What do I do?"
"Point your wand at the doorway and say 'Braut Tir'."
There was a pause. James heard Ralph whisper, "What's that? I missed
the accent!"
"Just do it, Ralph," Rose rasped impatiently, "they're standing right
there. What's the worst that can happen?"
Ralph said the incantation. There was a slight pop and the doorway
appeared. The light of the sunset flooded the cave. James squinted out at
Ralph and Rose as Merlin extinguished his staff.
"What'd I do?" Ralph exclaimed, stumbling backwards a step. "I sealed

them in! The entrance disappeared!" Even Rose's eyes had widened in fear.
"What's wrong with you two?" James asked, stepping through the
doorway with Merlin right behind him.
Ralph's eyes widened even further. "Whoa," he said, awed. "You just,
like, walked right through a stone wall. You're not, er, dead, are you?"
"They're fine, you prat," Rose grinned, smacking Ralph on the
shoulder.
"One-way stone," James shrugged, glancing back at the now solid wall
of the cave. The door was completely invisible. "Is it closed forever?"
Merlin nodded. "I require it no more. Let us return. The daylight will
be gone soon and the tide rises even as we speak.
James looked and saw that the waves were slopping over the lip of the
cavern mouth. Each wave pushed more water onto the rough floor. Merlin
still carried the small box under his arm as he turned to lead them up the
narrow, curving stairway.
"So that's it?" Ralph called up from the rear. "You have all your stuff in
that little box?"
"Are you surprised, Mr. Deedle?" Merlin replied. "Would you prefer to
heft a pile of trunks?"
Ralph chuckled humorlessly. "You'd be on your own if that was the
case. I can barely manage to drag myself out of here."
The return trip across the peninsula bridge was rather easier than it had
been on their first crossing. The cliffs of the shoreline were a welcome sight
and the wind was less than it had been an hour ago. Merlin was the last to
cross. When he joined James, Rose, and Ralph on the crown of the
promontory overlooking the peninsula, he turned to look back. Almost
casually, he thrust his staff out over the bridge.

"Discordium," he said quietly. There was no flash of light or obvious
magical blast of power, and yet the middle of the bridge shuddered visibly.
As if in slow motion, the spine of rock disintegrated and crumbled
massively into the ocean below, sending up enormous, crashing geysers of
water.
"Well, that's that then, isn't it?" Rose said, impressed.
Merlin smiled down at her. Finally, just as the sun touched its golden
reflection on the ocean horizon, they turned to depart.
As they made their way back, following in Merlin's enchanted path,
Rose drew close to James again.
"Ralph and I heard you talking in there," she said quietly. "But it didn't
sound like you were talking to Merlin. Was there something in there we
couldn't see from the doorway?"
James didn't answer right away. For some reason, he felt reticent to tell
Rose and Ralph about the skeleton of Farrigan. He glanced at Rose. "That
was me," he said, shrugging. "I was just… talking to myself. It was creepy
in there while Merlin went for the box."
Rose tightened her lips and looked closely at James as she walked. He
knew she knew he was lying. He looked away and trotted closer to Merlin.
"Headmaster," he said after a while, "what are the Borleys?"
Merlin was walking directly in front of James, his long stride cruising
straight through the Forest like a knife. The last shreds of dusk on his robes
gave him a vague, ghostly cast.
"As I explained to you on the train, Mr. Potter, the Borleys are shadow
creatures."
"Yeah, I remember, but where do they come from?"

Merlin's normally deep voice dropped a bit lower. "Your companion in
the cave was talkative, wasn't he?"
James followed Merlin closely. He wished he could see the wizard's
face. They moved through the darkening woods swiftly, making very little
noise. The wind shifted capriciously in the trees, rustling them, almost as if
to cover Merlin's voice.
James went on, "He said that the Borleys came with you from between
the worlds when you returned."
Merlin's voice was still low and rumbling. "There is a grain of truth in
all fictions, Mr. Potter. Perhaps you know what barnacles are? Disgusting
creatures that accumulate on the hulls of ships after a long sea journey.
They weigh down the ship and must eventually be removed and destroyed.
You may think of the Borleys as the magical equivalent."
"So they did come back with you?"
"This is so. I have been hard at work hunting them since my return.
Most remained near me and were easy to capture. Two followed Mr. Deedle
and Mr. Walker. Those I was able to track and capture before either boy
became aware of them. Yours, Mr. Potter, was rather wilier. I believe it is
the last of them."
James had been curious about something ever since that day on the
train. "How do you catch them if you can't use magic on them?"
"Old elements, James Potter," Merlin replied, and his voice had that
strange, hypnotic quality that James had last heard when the wizard was
talking a confession out of Denniston Dolohov, Ralph's father, last spring.
The Forest was becoming quite dark, and James wished again that he could
see Merlin's face. He had the creepy sensation that Merlin was talking to
him without using an audible voice. Merlin went on, "Old elements that few
in this age even know of, much less understand. I have a very curious bag, a
Darkbag, which has nothing in it. When I say that it contains nothing, Mr.

Potter, I do not mean that it is merely empty. The bag is full, packed even,
with the last remaining relic of pure darkness, left over from the dawn of
time. It is into this bag that the Borleys go, for there is only one thing that a
creature of shadow needs to exist in, and that is light."
"Does it kill them?" James asked quietly.
"Nothing can kill a Shade, Mr. Potter. They can only be contained.
They remain locked in the Darkbag, starved for magic, desperate for
escape, but utterly diminished with no light to define them. The Ministry of
Magic has utilized a similar, albeit crude, method for containing Dementors
ever since they were deemed untrustworthy as guards of Azkaban. They are
sealed in the cellars of their old ward, Azkaban itself, captive in chambers
rendered magically lightless. There, their powers are greatly diminished,
though not decimated. They howl, Mr. Potter. I am told it is a dreadful
sound, and I believe it."
James shivered. After a minute, he asked, "So what happens if the
Darkbag gets torn open?"
For the first time, Merlin turned. James saw one eye of the wizard
looking back at him over his shoulder. Still, he didn't break his stride. "The
Borleys would escape as a swarm, of course, Mr. Potter. Starved for magic,
they would attack the first source of magic they found and devour it."
"D-devour it?" James said. "But you said they were harmless. Like
barnacles."
"I said that one Borley, in its entry state, was mostly harmless. Many
Borleys, some in advanced states, and all desperate from their
imprisonment, would be anything but harmless. In the event of the
Darkbag's destruction, the barnacles would become piranhas. But this is
impossible, Mr. Potter. I am the keeper of the Darkbag, and that means it is
utterly safe."
James sighed. "Is that the famous Merlin bluster you told me about last
year?"

Merlin finally stopped. He turned and squatted, his eyes level with
James. He smiled and his eyes twinkled in the rising moonlight. "No, Mr.
Potter," he said in his normal voice. "That is the famous Merlin oath you
have not yet learned of. You may count on it."
"Finally," Ralph said as he and Rose caught up to them. "A break.
Rose, you still have those biscuits? How about a sharesy?"
When they finally reached the castle, Merlin led them straight through
the halls and up the spiral staircase to his office. Apart from the enormous
desk and the dozens of portraits that lined the walls of the Headmaster's
office, the room was unnaturally empty. James glanced around and saw the
portraits of Severus Snape and Albus Dumbledore, his brother's two
namesakes. Both portrait frames were, for the moment, unoccupied.
"I wanted to thank you three for your assistance this afternoon," Merlin
said, and he sounded almost hearty now that they had returned. "Thus, I
thought you might like to see my cache opened."
Rose widened her eyes with interest. "You're going to show us what's
in it?"
"Not precisely, Miss Weasley, although you will certainly see its
contents in time. No, I mean that perhaps you might like to see it opened. It
is, if I do say so myself, rather a good bit."
James smiled quizzically. "Well, sure. If you say so. Let's have a look."
Merlin seemed pleased. He carefully bent and set the small wooden
box on the floor. There was a clasp on the front, holding the lid shut. Merlin
lifted the latch and stood back.
Slowly, the lid began to rise. It seemed to lift like a drawer out of the
box, sliding upwards much further than the depth of the box should have
allowed. There was another drawer embedded in the front of the first
drawer. James moved around the box and saw that there were, in fact,

drawers on all four sides of the main drawer. The vertical drawer reached
man's height and stopped with a shudder. With a soft click, the drawers on
all four sides began to roll out. The sides of each new drawer bore yet more
drawers. Slowly, they unrolled, each surface revealing more and more
compartments. It was beautiful to watch, and yet it boggled the mind.
James' eyes seemed to resist what they were seeing. They watered a bit as
the box expanded, filling the center of the room. Finally, after about a
minute, the drawers stopped. James, Rose, and Ralph walked around the
mass of drawers, doors, and complicated locks and hinges.
"That was definitely a good bit," James said, awed.
"Much better than a pile of trunks," Rose agreed.
"Wonderful," Ralph sighed. "Mysteries and enigmas galore." He
looked pleadingly at James. "Can we go eat now?"
James grinned. The three students headed toward the door leading out
of the Headmaster's office. James was the last to go through, but just as he
was leaving, Merlin called his name. James stopped and turned as Ralph
and Rose started down the spiral staircase.
"I have returned your subtracted ten points, Mr. Potter, and added ten
as well," Merlin said. "You did very well in the cavern. You will remember,
of course, that secrecy is essential."
"Sure," James replied. "Not a word to anyone."
Merlin nodded, meeting James at the door. "Of course," he said,
lowering his voice, "I do not know precisely what Lord Farrigan said to you
while I retrieved the box, but I expect his words would also not bear
repeating to anyone within these halls. That includes Mr. Deedle and Miss
Weasley. As you know, the dead can be very… persuasive. I'd hate to see
any conspiracies take root."
James looked up at the Headmaster. The big man was like a giant next
to him. James nodded slowly. Merlin seemed satisfied.

"Thank you, Mr. Potter," he said. "Do enjoy your dinner. You've
earned it."
A moment later, James found himself standing next to the closed door
of the Headmaster's office. He looked at it thoughtfully, his brow slightly
furrowed.
"Come on, James!" Rose called up. "The gargoyle says it's cherry
posset for dessert tonight! I never get sweets like that at home!"
James shook his head slightly. If Merlin didn't want James to tell Rose
and Ralph what the skeleton had said, then there was surely a good reason.
But Merlin had only said he shouldn't tell anyone within the halls of
Hogwarts. If it came to it, there was technically no reason James couldn't
tell his parents, and they could tell whomever they wished, couldn't they?
Satisfied with that, James turned and climbed down the spiral staircase to
join his friends.

5. ALBUS AND THE BROOM
James met Ralph at the base of the steps on Monday morning. The halls
were already filled with the clamor and bustle of the start of school, and
even though James knew he'd probably be missing the freedoms of summer
by the end of his first week, for the moment he was still looking forward to
classes.
"Got my schedule all set," Ralph proclaimed happily as they entered
the Great Hall for breakfast. "Got Defence Against the Dark Arts with that
Debellows bloke first thing this morning."
"Check that," James said. "I'm there too. Strange that he didn't require
a book. He must just be so smart about the whole thing that he doesn't need
one. This should be excellent."

"Debellows rules," Graham said as James and Ralph plunked down at
the table. "You know he once took on two vampires at once with only a
Beater bat and a Muggle pencil."
"A pencil?" Ralph furrowed his brow.
"To stab them with, of course. It was the closest thing he had to a
wooden stake."
Ralph screwed up his face, thinking. "That must have been one bloody
sharp pencil."
Rose had already finished her breakfast, having arrived earlier. "I hear
that this is going to be a very practical Defence Against the Dark Arts class,
even for first-years. Apparently, Debellows prefers a hands-on approach."
"Well, just look at the fellow," Noah said, turning to gaze at the man
still finishing his breakfast at the teachers' table. "He looks like he's ready to
pounce even when he's sitting still."
Sabrina leaned over the table and said in a stage-whisper, "I think
Noah has a bit of a man-crush on him."
"Oh shut up," Noah replied. "You didn't grow up collecting Debellows
Harrier action cards. I just can't believe he's going to teach us how to battle
the Dark Arts. I hope he shows us how to do the Perseuspinch maneuver."
"I had an action figure that did that," Graham nodded. "I tried to use it
on my mum, once. Got me in no end of Barney."
"I have to wait until Wednesday for my first class with him," Rose
complained. "Tell me how it goes tonight, won't you?"
James nodded, his mouth full of toast. Across the room, James could
see Albus sitting in the middle of the Slytherin table, smiling and laughing
with his new friends. Strangely enough, most of those around him were

older students. Tabitha Corsica and Philia Goyle smiled and nodded as
Albus spoke.
"Come on," Ralph said, pulling James' collar. "Let's get to class a little
early. I want to see what this Debellows is all about."
"Hang on," James said, collecting his bag. He climbed off his bench
and skirted the edge of the hall, heading around toward the Slytherin table.
"Hey, Al," he called.
Albus looked up, following the sound of James' voice. "Hi, James!
Didn't see you all weekend. What's up?"
"Can you spare a minute to walk with your brother to first class? I
want to hear about your adventures in your new house."
"That's sweet," Tabitha said warmly. "Go ahead, Albus. We'll chat
again at lunch and make arrangements for Wednesday."
"Excellent!" Albus nodded happily. "All right, come on, big brother.
I've got Herbology with Neville first thing."
As they broke away from the Slytherin table, Albus was positively
bursting with excitement. "I got my ring key already, see? Spent the whole
weekend getting the grand tour with the Fang and Talons. Did you know the
Slytherin rooms have their own casting range? We can practice almost any
spells and curses we want on these enchanted dummies. If you get a curse
right, the dummy drops on the floor and does this hilarious imitation of the
effect. Not that I'm any good at the wandwork yet, but Tabby says I
shouldn't rush it."
James nearly choked. "'Tabby'?"
"Yeah," Albus nodded. "Tabitha Corsica. She's the unofficial head of
Fang and Talons. I mean, nobody is really an official anything in the club.
It's really just a joke with the Slytherins."

James looked back at Ralph, his eyebrows raised.
"Tabitha tried to get me in last year, before the debate. It's kind of a
secret society, although there's not much secret about it if you're a
Slytherin."
"Tabby says it's fine for me to talk to you about it, James," Albus
assured. "But I'd keep it hush-hush if I was you. I mean, we don't want just
anybody to know about it. What fun would that be?"
"So what's going on with Tabitha this Wednesday?" James asked.
"What?"
"This Wednesday," James said, stopping as they reached the archway
leading outside to the greenhouses. "Tabitha said she'd make arrangements
with you about something."
"Oh, that," Albus said, glancing out at the glass buildings twinkling in
the morning sunlight. "That's just for Quidditch try-outs. She says she'd
love to see me get on the team."
James smiled uncomfortably. "But you don't have a broom or anything.
Trust me, those house brooms are useless. I couldn't even fly in a straight
line until I got my Thunderstreak."
"That's not going to be a problem," Albus said, shouldering his pack
and grinning. "Tabby says she'll let me use her broom for the try-out."
James' mouth dropped open, but Albus turned away before he could
say anything. "Got to be off, big brother," he called over his shoulder. "Can't
be late to first class!" He strode out into the sunlight, joining a few other
first-year Slytherins who'd been skulking nearby. James turned to Ralph, his
mouth still hanging open.
"First I heard of it," Ralph said, raising his hands, palm out. "I'm not

part of 'Tabby's' crew, you know."
"But that broom…," James sputtered, "it's… it's evil!"
"Come on," Ralph said. "Let it go for now. Class starts in five
minutes."
As James turned reluctantly to follow Ralph, he passed Scorpius on his
way out to the greenhouses. Scorpius smirked at James and bumped him
with his shoulder. James almost said something, but a nearby Slytherin beat
him to it.
"Forsooth, mine breaking heart, Malfoy!" the boy called, clutching his
chest. There was a chorus of laughter. Scorpius ignored them.
"Why isn't Debellows having class in the Defence Against the Dark
Arts classroom?" Ralph asked, studying his schedule as they threaded
through the crowded corridors. "This is taking us all the way to the other
side of the castle."
James shrugged, distracted. "Couldn't guess."
They reached the designated room and filed in with the rest of the
second-years. The classroom was huge with a very high ceiling and high
windows along one wall. There were no chairs or desks. Instead, there were
padded mats on the floors, old-fashioned dumbbells arranged in a long rack,
and an assortment of clockwork dummies and complicated apparatuses
covered with pads and pommels.
Morgan Patonia, the Hufflepuff, walked in and stopped, looking
around the space. "Hmph. Welcome to the Hogwarts gymnasium," she said
in a bewildered voice. "I didn't even know we had one of these."
The class shuffled nervously around the space, not quite sure what to
do with themselves. Kevin Murdock, the Slytherin with whom James had
had Technomancy the previous year, grabbed a couple of the dumbbells and

hefted them, showing off for a pair of Ravenclaw girls who rolled their
eyes.
"Greetings, class!" a voice boomed heartily. James turned to see
Professor Debellows striding into the room from a rear door. He was
dressed in a short tunic and sandals and had a towel slung around his neck.
"As you know, I am your new teacher for Defence Against the Dark Arts,
Kendrick Debellows. I hate being called Professor anything, so feel free to
call me by my first name. We'll not stand on protocol in this class. I want
you all to think of me as your friend and partner. Do have a seat, all of you."
James saw Ralph glance around, as if he expected a row of chairs to
have suddenly appeared. The rest of the class was doing the same thing,
their faces vaguely confused.
"On the mats!" Debellows laughed. "My word, this is going to be a
learning experience for all of us, I daresay. On the mats, students.
Anywhere you like. That's the spirit."
James hunkered down with his back against one of the clockwork
dummies. As he leaned against it, it emitted a soft click and a whirring
sound. The arm of the dummy popped upwards and the hand balled into a
huge, padded fist. James boggled up at it, then at Ralph. Ralph looked
characteristically worried as he settled uncomfortably on the mat.
"I don't know what kind of classes you are used to in the past,
students," Debellows said, clasping his hands behind his back and rocking
on his heels. "In fact, I have specifically asked not to be told of the methods
of your previous Defence teachers. I have my way of doing things, a way
that proved very successful during my years as the leader of the Harriers,
and I intend to implement the same methods here. Many of you will be
familiar with my exploits, but let me assure you: this is not a lecture class.
We will not be discussing my adventures at great length, although they may
from time to time prove instructive and illustrative. No, this is going to be a
class where we do things. To learn is to perform! And perform you shall.
You will most likely end up sore and exhausted. You may return from our
classes bruised, sweaty, and bedraggled. But you will become strong! I will

do my best to teach you everything I have gleaned from my years of
confronting the Dark Arts. Now, I will require a volunteer."
Debellows' gimlet eyes roamed eagerly over the crowd of secondyears. A Ravenclaw named Joseph Torrance raised his hand tentatively.
"Excellent, that's it, don't be shy," Debellow's called heartily. "Come
on up here, young man. I don't know your name, but I'll call you Ignatious."
"My name's Joseph," the boy said, joining Debellows at the front of
the room.
"Joe, then. Fine, fine. What I want you to do, Joe, is pretend to be a
werewolf. I want you to attack me."
"Attack you, sir?" Joseph said a bit uncertainly.
"Yes, yes, as a werewolf. Just lunge at me, go for the throat. Don't be
afraid to hurt me."
Joseph swallowed, glancing out at the room, then back at Debellows.
Gamely, he crouched, raised his hands with his fingers hooked, and
charged, making a fair attempt at a ravenous howl. Just as he jumped,
Debellows spun. In a blur of motion, he hooked one leg over the boy, spun
him upwards into the air, produced his wand, and shouted an unintelligible
command. Joseph froze in midair a moment before he'd have crashed to the
mat. His face was still contorted in a comedic growl.
The class had barely had time to gasp before it was over. There was a
moment of awed silence, and then a burst of applause. Graham nudged
Morgan, nodding excitedly and pointing.
"He's perfectly all right," Debellows called, shaking back the sleeves
of his tunic. "He's not even paralyzed, just suspended. Isn't that right,
Ignatious?" He patted the boy on his upraised foot.
"It's Joseph, sir," the boy replied, shaking himself and glaring

nervously down at the floor.
"Joe, yes, certainly. The point, of course, is not to harm the poor
creature, but simply to get its feet off the ground. If it cannot touch the
ground, it cannot charge. If it cannot charge… well, the rest is elementary,
as you can see. Brace yourself, Joe."
Joseph barely had time to thrust his hands out in front of him before
Debellows tapped him with his wand. The boy toppled to the mat.
Debellows looked brightly out over the students. "Any questions?"
Graham shot his hand into the air. "What was that incantation, sir?"
"Tsk, tsk, tsk," Debellows chided, ticking his finger at Graham. "Let's
not get ahead of ourselves, Mr., ah, young man. 'Stamina before spells' is
my motto. Did you happen to notice the maneuver I used to get the
werewolf into the air first? That is the key to the entire affair. The spellwork
is merely the icing on the cake. No, in this class, we will apply ourselves to
the discipline of physically preparing ourselves for the challenges we may
face as defenders of right. Did you know, class, that a fit-enough wizard
may overcome even the Imperius Curse if he has enough stamina and
mental force of will? It is true. For too long, the focus of civilian Defence
Against the Dark Arts has been quick and dirty spellwork, protection
charms, and tricky hexes. Here, I will not make you merely proficient in
theory. Here, I will make you into warriors!"
He beamed out at the room, his dark crew cut bristling. After a
moment, Kevin Murdock began to clap. The rest of the class joined in
halfheartedly.
"I know you probably aren't excited about my approach," Debellows
said, raising one hand. "There are those who do not utilize the same
methods as I do; those who do not respect the importance of physical
prowess, who believe that Expelliarmus spells and Patronuses are more than
enough to battle the most evil of foes. In the Harriers, we call those people
'Aurors'." He grinned, and there was a smattering of laughter. Kevin

Murdock smirked back at James, nudging a fellow Slytherin. Debellows
went on, "But I think you'll find my approach quite effective in the long
run. And I promise you: I will not ask any of you to do anything that I am
not willing to do right alongside you. And now!" He clapped his hands
together eagerly. "Let us see where we stand. How many of you have ever
heard of the Gauntlet?"
James glanced around the room. No one raised their hand this time.
Debellows seemed undeterred.
"The Gauntlet is an ancient tool used by those training for battle. It is a
sort of clockwork obstacle course. Granted, being wizards, we have
outfitted ours with certain, er, specialized capabilities. There is no point to
the Gauntlet other than to surpass it. Surely, you have all heard the phrase
'run the gauntlet'? I am about to illustrate what that phrase actually means."
Debellows paced briskly across the room and stopped at the end of the
line of clockwork apparatuses. He clasped his hands to his elbows and
twisted back and forth at the waist, jumped from foot to foot half a dozen
times, and then finally dropped to a crouch. He extended one arm, pointing
his wand at the line of devices.
"Defendeum!" he barked.
Immediately, the apparatuses ratcheted, whirred, and clanked to life.
Debellows launched forward, tucking and rolling beneath the first device as
it swung a padded club across his path. With a grunt, the man leapt into the
remaining clockwork. He moved in a sort of muscular ballet, lunging,
crouching, and leaping through the mechanical melee. He dodged spinning
wheels of padded fists, ducked under Stunning Spells fired from a bank of
pop-up wands, leapt over kicking pommels and snapping padded jaws, and
finally dove, flipped, and landed neatly on his feet at the end of the
Gauntlet.
There was no applause this time. James stared, horrified, at the wildly
thrashing clockwork monstrosity.

"So!" Debellows called over the noise of the Gauntlet, jamming his
fists onto his hips. "Who'll be first up, then?"

"He's completely daft!" Graham exclaimed as he limped his way to
History of Magic. "He must've taken one too many Stupefies to the brain
when he was a Harrier or something!"
"No spells until Year Four," Ralph said, shaking his head. "And what
was that stuff at the end? Who's Artis Decerto?"
"It's not a who, it's a what," Rose said, falling in next to Ralph. "It's a
sort of magical version of karate."
James nursed his elbow where it'd been pummeled in the Gauntlet.
"Where are you going, Rose?"
"History of Magic," she replied primly.
Ralph glanced at her. "Our History of Magic?"
"I don't know what you mean by that," Rose said, pulling herself to her
full height, which was approximately to Ralph's Adam's apple. "My
schedule has me in History of Magic, second period, Professor Binns. I
can't help it if my advisor suggested I skip to some higher-level classes. So
things didn't go so well with Professor Debellows?"
"We aren't supposed to call him 'Professor'," Graham said sourly. "He
wants to be our mate, don't you know."

"The kind of mate that makes you do fifty pushups if you can't manage
to avoid getting plastered by a giant, padded fist," Ralph said mournfully.
"I hate to say it, but it will probably do some of you some good," Rose
said, eyeing the boys appraisingly.
"Just wait until you have your first class with him," James growled.
"See how perky you are afterwards."
As they filed into the History of Magic classroom, the ghostly
Professor Binns seemed to be in midlecture. His back was turned as he
wrote on the chalkboard with a piece of phantom chalk. Strangely, he
seemed to be writing notes on top of older notes, creating a nonsensical
mish-mash. There was the distinct impression that the chalkboard contained
years of the professor's ghostly writings, layer upon layer fading into
dimness. As James knew, Binns had only the slightest grip on temporal
reality. Last year, Ted had told James that the school had tried to move the
History of Magic classroom to another wing so as to make space for the
visiting Alma Alerons. Unfortunately, Professor Binns continued to
promptly appear in the old room every day to perform his lectures despite
the fact that the classroom had been temporarily converted to an Alma
Aleron girls' dormitory. No amount of persuasion could convince the ghost
to relocate his classes, and the room was shortly converted back to a
classroom.
Awkwardly, the students found their seats and began to produce
parchments and quills. After a minute, Rose cleared her throat rather loudly
and called the professor's name. Binns stopped writing on the chalkboard
and turned, peering mistily back at Rose through his spectacles.
"Yes, Miss Granger?"
There was a ripple of laughter and Rose reddened. "I'm not Miss
Granger, sir. I'm Rose Weasley, her daughter. I, er, think we missed the first
part of your lecture."

"Another generation already," Binns muttered to himself. "Very well,
then."
The ghost reached for a phantom eraser and began to swipe it across
the chalkboard, producing absolutely no effect.
"You'll never make sense of his notes. You just have to listen to his
lecture," Graham whispered confidentially. "It's a challenge, but the good
news is that he's been giving the same tests for forty years. The answers are
carved right into the tops of the desks. See?"
James had had Professor Binns last year, but he'd not heard this
particular legend. He looked down at the worn graffiti carved into the
desktop. Sure enough, buried in the center, was a list of numbered terms
and phrases. At the top, like a headline, was the phrase, 'WHEN IN
DOUBT, JUST SAY "GOBLIN REBELLION"'.
"That's cheating," Rose said without much conviction. "Er,
technically."
"You will recall," Binns said, removing his glasses and wiping them
absently on his ancient, ghostly lapel, "last year, we completed our studies
with the end of the magical Dark Ages, in which men and wizards finally
parted ways after centuries of unrest. The magical world allowed the
Muggle kingdoms to believe that they had dispersed and eventually died
out. Contrariwise, of course, the magical world developed in secret, as it
has existed ever since, bypassing the typical frictions inherent in the
interaction of the magical and the nonmagical. This brings us to the very
beginnings of the modern age of wizard history, in which strictly magical
establishments came into existence. This year, we will study the histories of
those establishments, from governments to economy to education. Initially,
nearly all of those details were managed inside the same walls, and by the
same people. You may be aware that this very castle was the center of the
magical world for quite some time before it was exclusively classified as a
place of learning."

Rose studiously scribbled notes on her parchment. Ralph was watching
her with curious fascination, either because of her persistence in taking
notes or because her handwriting was so meticulously precise. James
wished Zane was here to make an amusing drawing of Professor Binns.
Idly, he doodled on his own parchment.
"Magical photography," Binns continued, "while much older than the
Muggle equivalent, was still in its infancy at the founding of Hogwarts.
Here, in what was, at the time, still an experimental medium, we see the
only remaining photographic representation of the original founders of
Hogwarts."
James looked up to see the professor pointing his ghostly wand at a
small, framed picture on the wall. James squinted at it but couldn't quite
make it out. He hadn't known there were any photos of the founders and he
was quite curious to see what they really looked like. He glanced around the
room, but no one else seemed to be having any difficulty making out the
ancient photo. James pressed his lips together. It was going to have to
happen sooner or later. As quietly as he could, he reached into his bag and
found the little pocket that held his new glasses. He slipped them out and,
as surreptitiously as possible, put them on. Immediately, the ancient photo
came into focus.
"Technically, it is not a photograph as we would know it, but a sort of
flash-painting created with specially hexed paints. In any event, the result is
a faithful, if crude, image. Here we see all four of the original founders
standing in front of their statues in the original rotunda. This was taken
rather late in their careers, upon the occasion of the naming and dedication
of Hogwarts as a school of witchcraft and wizardry over ten centuries ago."
James studied the ancient image. It was indeed very grainy and only in
black and white. Still, he could clearly make out the four figures, two
witches and two wizards. Godric Gryffindor's long face wore his famous
mustache and pointed goatee. Salazar Slytherin's features were pinched,
with sharp cheeks and chin. He was perfectly bald. Helga Hufflepuff was
tall and severe-looking, with long braided hair. Rowena Ravenclaw wore

her greying black hair loose, framing a beautiful, smiling face with large,
dark eyes. Behind them could be seen their statues, but only from the waist
down. The statues had indeed been very large.
"Look," Graham whispered, pointing at the photo, "there's the ghost in
the plinth! You can see it off on the side, next to the statue on the far right,
just like in Rita Skeeter's book!"
Ralph looked puzzled. "The ghost in the plinth?"
Rose made a pained face. "It's just a myth, Ralph," she whispered. "It
was in a book that came out a few years ago: The Founders' Codex. It says
that there are secrets buried in a bunch of ancient paintings and pictures and
things. Supposedly, there's a ghostly face hidden in the shadows of the
statue plinth in the founders' photo."
"It's right there," Graham rasped. "Skeeter says it was hexed into the
photo by Salazar Slytherin himself as a warning of his final curse. It's
supposed to be the face of the heir of Slytherin. Of course, that's old news
now. The Chamber of Secrets is well-known. It was on the Hogwarts tour
up until a few years ago when they shut it down for being unsafe."
A Hufflepuff named Ashley Doone whispered from the row behind
James, "I can see the ghost in the plinth, too! It looks like… like it's
wearing glasses! Why, James," she said conspiratorially, "I think the ghost
in the plinth is you!"
James spun to glare back at her. She grinned and covered her mouth.
When James turned back, Rose and Ralph were also looking at him.
"Since when do you wear glasses?" Ralph asked in a whisper.
"I don't!" James rasped. "I just need them to see… things. Far away.
Sometimes. Hardly ever!"
"They're kind of cute, James," Rose smiled. "In a brainy sort of way."

James yanked the glasses off and jammed them back into his bag. Rose
looked back at the ancient photo as Professor Binns burbled on obliviously.
"And Ashley's right," Rose whispered, smiling playfully. "The ghost in
the plinth does look a little bit like you. I didn't even see it at first."
"Go jump off a turret," James mumbled, returning to his doodling.

That evening, after dinner, James and Rose sat amongst a pile of books
and parchments at a corner table in the Gryffindor common room.
"It's only our first day back," James complained. "I can't believe I'm
already sick of homework."
Rose dipped her quill. "If you'd stop complaining about it and just do
it, it wouldn't seem like so much work."
"Thanks for the pep talk," James grumbled, flipping randomly through
an enormous dusty book. "So how many classes am I going to be sharing
with you this year anyway? I mean, besides History of Magic and
Transfiguration. It's a little embarrassing, you know."
"I can't imagine why," Rose said without looking up from her
parchment, "it's no reflection on you that I got my mum's grasp of basic
magical principles. You, on the other hand, got your dad's grasp of
slouching off your studies until the very last minute. It's simple genetics."
James sat up. "You're already done with your Transfiguration

homework, then? Maybe you could give me a hand with mine since you're
so smart. After all, we're family."
"You obviously have me confused with someone else," Rose said,
stuffing her books into her bag and zipping it. "That might've worked on my
mum back in the day, but that's only because she had an overdeveloped
sense of responsibility. My Weasley heritage offsets that nicely. By the way,
shouldn't you be wearing your glasses to do your homework?"
James threw her a wilting look. "I only need them to see far away,
thank you very much. I'd appreciate it if you kept the whole glasses thing to
yourself."
"It's no big deal. Lots of people wear glasses."
"Lots of perfect spods," James groused dismally.
"Damien wears them," Rose pointed out. "And Professor McGonagall.
Fiera Hutchins wears them and they look totally cute on her, even if she is a
Slytherin. And Clarence Templeton, and Scorpius…"
James nearly knocked his books off the table. "Scorpius wears glasses?
How do you know?"
Rose blinked at James. "I saw him wearing them in Herbology. He
needs them to read, I would guess. Unlike you, he seemed perfectly
comfortable wearing them in class. They look rather sporting, in fact.
They're rimless, with tortoiseshell sides—"
"All right, all right," James said, waving his hand dismissively. "This
isn't making it any better."
"Despite what you may think," Rose said, leaning in and lowering her
voice, "he's not stupid. He may not be the nicest boy in school, but he
knows his stuff."
"He knows how to cast a few spells, big deal," James said, crossing his

arms. "His parents probably hired him one of those goblin tutors just to
make sure he could show the rest of us up."
Rose shrugged and looked pointedly across the room. "Looks like he's
done with his homework, at any rate."
James followed his cousin's gaze. Scorpius sat slouched in the highback chair near the fireplace. He was idly flicking his wand, floating a bit of
paper folded to resemble a bat. It bobbed and swooped easily.
"Bloody show-off," James grumbled under his breath.
Cameron Creevey saw James looking. He stood and approached the
table tentatively. "Hey, James! How was your first day?"
"Lousy," James griped. "You any good at Transfiguration, Cameron?"
Cameron shook his head. "I haven't even had my first class, sorry. I
just wanted to ask you: is it true about last year? About the aligning of the
planets and how you were there for Merlin's return and all that stuff about
how you sent that Muggle news fellow packing?"
"Well," James began, and then shrugged tiredly, "yeah, sure, I guess.
It's probably all true enough, but it wasn't like it sounds. I was trying to stop
Merlin's return, you know. So really, it was all a big bust."
Cameron grinned, showing a lot of pink gums. "That's totally
excellent!" he exclaimed. "My dad, he's Dennis Creevey, he went to school
with your dad, Harry Potter, right?"
"Sure, if you say so," James agreed, smiling. The boy's enthusiasm was
rather contagious. "But I'm not like him, Cameron, really. I'm just a kid.
See? No lightning bolt scar. Besides, I had loads of help."
"Yeah, I heard," Cameron nodded. "Ralph Deedle, whose dad's real
name is Dolohov! Nobody saw that one coming, did they? Still, makes
sense in hindsight. At least that's what my dad says."

Rose smirked and pretended to read one of James' books. James shook
his head wonderingly. "Where did you get all this, Cameron?"
"Oh, all the first-years have been talking about it. We can't wait to see
what you get up to this year!"
James frowned. "This year?"
"Sure!" Cameron enthused. "I mean, it's just like in your dad's day!
Every year, he got in some great adventure, didn't he? We've got all the old
Daily Prophet articles at home as well as the novelizations. I know the
books are a little exaggerated, but my dad, he was there for some of it, and
he says they don't even do the real stories justice. My favorite is the one
about the Triwizard Tournament, especially the bits with the dragon!"
James held up his hands, stopping Cameron. "Look, those books are
about my dad. Not me. Things are different these days, aren't they? There's
no more Voldemort, no more big, scary, evil society bent on taking over the
world. Last year was a fluke, all right? Besides, I wasn't a hero like my dad
was. If I hadn't had Ralph and Zane—"
"Zane?" Cameron interrupted. "He's the one from the States?"
"Yes," James laughed, exasperated. "He—"
James jumped as something rapped against the window behind him.
He spun around, eyes wide. The window was perfectly black. He stared at
his reflection in the old glass. "What the—"
The rap came again, louder, shaking the window in its pane. A small
object had thrown itself against the window from the outside. It looked like
a moth, but with glowing green wings. James focused on it, furrowing his
brow.
"What is it?" Rose asked, coming around the table to join James.

James shook his head. The moth threw itself against the window again,
rattling the glass with its wings. It was remarkably strong considering its
size.
"It's a lunarfly," Rose said, recognizing the flying shape. "Let it in
before it knocks itself senseless. They're harmless."
James unlatched the window and swung it open just as the lunarfly
dove again. It shot through the open window and past James. Cameron
ducked as the glowing moth spun out over the room. It swooped wildly,
flitting through the students scattered around the room, leaving a trail of
faintly glowing dust behind it. Scorpius sat up and peered at the moth,
narrowing his eyes, as it wove and arced, drawing dusty greenish lines in
the air. Finally, as if exhausted, the moth fluttered to a halt on the table,
landing on James' pile of books. It folded its wings and twitched its
antennae at James.
"Whoa!" Cameron said excitedly. James raised his eyes.
The lines of glowing dust had condensed into a shape. It floated in the
air, drifting very slowly toward the ground. James recognized the shape. He
grinned.
"Cameron, meet Zane," James said, gesturing to the familiar face
formed by the glowing dust. "Zane, we were just talking about you. How'd
you know?"
The dusty representation of Zane's face smiled. "It works! Hi, James!
Hold on a second. Raphael, Anna, tell Professor Franklyn it works. I'm
getting through! They can see me! All right, anyway. Hey, everybody. Hi,
Rose! Where's the Ralphinator?"
"He and Albus are down with the Slytherins," James replied. "Zane,
what is this?"
Zane's shimmering face grimaced as if to say it's a long story. "You

ever hear the bit about the Chaos Butterfly? The one that flaps its wings in
Paris and causes a hurricane in Los Angeles? Well, this is that butterfly. It's
a moth, really, but the point is it doesn't cause the hurricanes, it just knows
when they're going to happen. Franklyn says it has some sort of psychic
connection to the cosmos. Anyway, it can tune into stuff thousands of miles
away. The trick was just to get it to tune into the right thing. At the moment,
it's tuned in to my face over here at Alma Aleron. So how do I look?"
James leaned in, studying the strange, glowing phenomenon. "Like a
seasick ghost."
"That's as good as it gets, for now," Zane nodded. "Still, it's a big leap
for the Department of Experimental Magical Communications. Raphael
says we'll probably get a grant for this. Anyway, I've only got a minute
before the dust settles. How are you all doing?"
"Fine," James replied. "Tell Cameron here that there aren't going to be
any more exciting adventures this year."
"There better not be," Zane agreed. "James swore them off last year,
Cam. That's the only reason I let my parents drag me back to America.
Anyway, I'm fading out, I can tell. I'll be in touch, you guys. We have a few
other techniques to test out. Should be fun!"
"All right, Zane," James called as the glowing face began to
disintegrate. "See you later!"
"Wait!" Zane's voice cried, growing faint. "Did I hear you say your
brother was with the Slyth…" His voice vanished as the glowing moth dust
faded out of the air. On the table in front of James, the moth flexed its
wings. It took off again and flitted silently through the open window. James
clasped it shut.
"That was dead brilliant!" Cameron suddenly exclaimed. James
smiled, shook his head, and shooed the smaller boy away. The rest of the
Gryffindors in the common room went back to their business.

"That's complete nonsense," Rose said, settling back into her seat.
"There's no such thing as the Chaos Butterfly. It's just a metaphor."
James grinned smugly at Rose. "You do fancy him!"
Rose scowled at him. "Now why in the world would you say that?"
"Because," James said simply, "you waited until he was gone to say
that."
Rose blushed and looked away, fuming.
"See?" James said, nudging her. "I'm not a dolt about everything, am
I?"
Rose harrumphed and gathered her bag. "Enjoy your Transfiguration
homework," she said, standing. "And by the way, I saw your History of
Magic homework answers. You got three of them wrong, and I'm not going
to tell you which ones." She batted her eyes and smiled sweetly.
"Goodnight, then!"
James slumped in his chair, watching her stalk up the stairs to the girls'
dormitory. Across the room, Cameron grinned at him.
No more adventures this year, James thought. That was a good thing,
wasn't it? Of course it was. Besides, the trio was broken. Zane was gone,
back across the ocean and in a completely different time zone. That had
never happened to Harry Potter. It had always been Harry, Ron, and
Hermione, the magic trio, inseparable even to this day. Not so for James,
and that, he told himself, was just fine. Let Albus have an adventure if there
was one to be had. After all, he was the one everyone said looked just like
Dad when he'd been younger.
James' forehead itched. Without thinking about it, he scratched it,
pushing his unruly hair up. Just like he'd told Cameron, there was no
lightning bolt scar there. James wasn't his father.

When James lowered his hand, he saw Scorpius Malfoy staring at him
from across the room. His face was inscrutable. After a moment, Scorpius
looked away, as if bored. If there was any proof that the era of Harry Potter
style adventures was over, it was sitting right over there: Scorpius Malfoy
with a Gryffindor crest embroidered on his robes.
James sighed, opened his Transfiguration textbook, and began his
homework.

The first days of school passed in a blur. James attended his classes
and made a concerted effort to take notes and tackle his homework. His
diligence sprang partly from his own resolve not to get behind early in the
year, but was also partly due to the presence of Rose in many of his classes.
She served as a constant, disgruntled source of competition since James was
determined not to allow his first-year cousin to outperform him despite her
natural braininess.
One class Rose didn't share with James was Care of Magical
Creatures, which was still taught by Hagrid. Hagrid embarrassed James by
greeting him with a gigantic, bone-cracking bear hug at the beginning of
class.
"I didn't have th' chance to say so at th' service, James," Hagrid said in
what he thought was a confidential voice, "but I'm so sorry about your
Granddad. Arthur was a great man, 'e was."
James nodded, a little annoyed at having been reminded of his
granddad's death. It had been a few days since he'd thought about it. Hagrid

invited the class to sit on the multitude of pumpkins maturing in his garden.
He spent the period explaining what the class was about and describing the
animals he'd introduce the students to over the course of the year. James
didn't listen particularly closely, gazing instead out over the lake, his
thoughts far away and melancholy.
During his Wednesday free period, James sat with Ralph and Rose at a
table in the library. He took the opportunity to write a short letter to his
parents. When he was finished, it occurred to him to write a note to his
Cousin Lucy as well, as he'd promised. He dipped his quill and jotted the
first things that came to his mind.
Dear Lucy,
Hi! I hope Uncle P. and Aunt A. aren't dragging you all
over the place too much, but if
they are, I hope you are having some fun and seeing some cool
stuff. The school year is starting all right. The new Defence
teacher is Kendrick Debellows, the famous Harrier. Ask your dad
if you don't know who he is. He's pretty hardcore, and he doesn't
have much good to say about Aurors, so that class looks to be a
bust. Al would say hi if he knew I was writing you. He ended up in
Slyth after all! I promised I would let him tell Mum and Dad, but
he didn't say I couldn't tell you. Rose is sitting right here and she
says hi and get a picture of anything cool you see if you are
anyplace interesting, even if you're sick of seeing it all. Tell Mol
we all said hello. Send a letter and any pics back with Nobby, all
right?
Sincerely,
James
James let Rose sign the letter to Lucy as well. When they were done,
he took the letter back and reread it. Then, thoughtfully, he added:

P.S. If you get bored, you could do me a little favor. Look up
anything you can find about something called the Gatekeeper or
the Sentinel of Worlds. It might be a bit hard to dig up, but I know
you like figuring stuff out, and it'd be a great help to me. But don't
say anything to anyone else about it. I promised to keep it a
secret. Thanks.
James finished writing, then quickly sealed both letters and stuffed
them into his satchel. That afternoon, after their last classes, Rose and
Ralph accompanied James to the Owlery. There, James attached the letters
to Nobby's leg whilst Rose and Ralph stood near the door.
"I'm glad I brought a cat," Rose said, wrinkling her nose. "This place is
right rancid."
"Cats can't deliver post," James replied.
"Well, an owl can't snuggle up on your lap by the fireplace."
Ralph nodded. "Or cough a hairball on your shoe."
Rose elbowed him. James finished attaching the letters to Nobby and
stood back.
"Take Mum and Dad's letter first, Nobby. Lucy might send some stuff
back."
Nobby screeched agreement. He spread his wings, balanced on the
perch for a moment, and then launched. James craned his head as Nobby
thrust upward, past the ranks of his fellow owls, and disappeared through a
window at the top of the Owlery.
As the three students made their way back through the castle to dinner,
James asked Rose pointedly, "So how was your first Defence Against the
Dark Arts class?"
Rose pressed her lips together and hefted her satchel. "He wouldn't let

me run the Gauntlet."
Ralph glanced at her. "Well, that's a good thing, right?"
"No, Ralph, it isn't. The boys all had to run it. Debellows says girls are
'too delicate' for it. He set us up doing one-on-one drills with each other.
None of the other girls take it seriously, either. It was a complete waste of
time."
"I hadn't really noticed it," James said, "but now that you mention it,
he doesn't have any girls run the Gauntlet in our class either."
"Or face the clockwork ogre," Ralph added. "That club may be
padded, but it packs a wallop."
"You should be glad you're a girl, then, Rose," James said fervently.
"It's your free pass out of that bruise factory."
Rose shook her head, annoyed. "You're both completely missing the
point! Girls aren't any less capable than boys. I bet I could beat most of you
through the Gauntlet if I had a chance."
James stared incredulously at her. "You want to go through that thing?"
"Well," she replied, hedging a bit, "not really. I mean, it does look
pretty brutal. But it's the principle of the matter."
Ralph shook his head. "This is the first time in my life I wish I'd been
born a girl."
"I'm going to write Mum and Dad about it," Rose declared firmly.
"When Mum hears that…"
Rose's voice trailed away as a cold push of air suddenly rippled her
robes. James and Ralph felt it as well. The three stopped in the corridor,
glancing around.

James frowned. "What was that?"
Neither of the others responded. There didn't appear to be any obvious
source of the breeze. There were no windows in this section of the castle.
Closed doors lined the walls, lit by a series of lanterns hung on chains. As
James looked, the lantern at the end of the corridor winked out. James
nudged Ralph and pointed.
Ralph's voice wavered. "Was that already burnt out, or did it just—"
The lantern next to it flickered and died, as if someone had blown the
flame out.
"Maybe it's just the wind," Rose said uncertainly. "Come on, let's—"
Two more lanterns blinked out in quick succession. James glanced at
Rose, then Ralph, his eyes wide. Suddenly, much stronger than before, a
cold wind tore down the corridor, streaming through their robes and
whipping their hair. It blew the rest of the lanterns out, throwing the
corridor into murky darkness.
"Look!" Rose cried breathlessly, her voice unnaturally high. James and
Ralph followed her shaking, pointing hand. There was a figure moving
down the corridor. It floated above the floor, its head lowered, obscuring the
face. It drifted toward them swiftly and silently. James grabbed Ralph and
Rose's sleeves, pulling them as he attempted to back away, but his legs felt
frozen. The figure was moving too quickly. It was nearly upon them.
Suddenly, just as it heaved directly in front of them, it raised its head.
Ralph gasped. Rose uttered a little scream. James blinked.
"Cedric?" he exclaimed, his heart pounding. "What are you doing?!"
The ghost of Cedric Diggory straightened and grinned at them. "I've
been practicing," he said in his distant, ghostly voice.

"Y-you know him?" Rose stammered, recovering a little.
"Yeah, we know him," Ralph replied. "That wasn't right, Ced. What
was that all about anyway?"
Cedric looked taken aback. "I'm the 'Specter of Silence'. I've been
practicing over the summer, trying to create a little mystique. What, was it
too much?"
James nodded, his eyes wide. "Yeah, I'd say it was a bit much! Can
you, you know, fix the lights?"
The ghost glanced back at the snuffed lanterns. "Actually, they're a lot
easier to put out than to relight. Hold on."
Cedric closed his eyes and screwed up his face. After a moment, two
of the lanterns flickered back alight.
"That's a bit better," Rose sighed. "But still. Don't do that again, all
right? At least not to me."
Cedric smiled. "You must be Hermione's daughter. You have her hair,
although it's a bit redder."
"I prefer the term 'auburn'," Rose said. "Anyway, yes. Nice to meet
you, er, Cedric. I remember hearing about you. Care to accompany us to
dinner?"
Cedric looked thoughtful. "I don't think so. It's not good for the
mystique, hanging about in the Great Hall with everyone there."
"All the other ghosts do it," Ralph commented. "The Bloody Baron's
down there nearly every meal, waving his sword around and teaching the
first-years bad words."
"Yeah…," Cedric agreed doubtfully. "That's fine for him. He's been

around since forever…"
James narrowed his eyes. "How many people have seen you, Cedric? I
mean, not counting us?"
The ghost floated nervously. "Besides you? Er… does the portrait of
Snape count?"
James shook his head.
"What about the Muggle intruder?"
"No."
"Well," Cedric admitted, "that's pretty much it, then."
"Wait a minute," Rose said, raising her hand. "You're a shy ghost?"
Cedric grimaced. "Not 'shy'. I was never shy. I've just been… busy."
"Busy learning how to blow out lanterns and practicing being the
'Specter of Silence'?" James clarified, tilting his head.
"Look, it's just different, that's all," the ghost said. "I haven't been
down to a dinner in the Great Hall since the night I died, over twenty years
ago."
Ralph spoke up, "So? Not much has changed, I'm guessing. From the
looks of things down there, they've been running it pretty much the same
since the founders themselves. Come on, it'll be fun even if you can't
exactly eat the food."
Cedric shook his head sadly. "I can't. Not yet." He heaved a ghostly
sigh. "Last time I was there, I sat with my friends. I was on my way out to
what I hoped would be a victory in the final challenge of the Triwizard
Tournament. Everybody toasted me with their pumpkin juice and wished
me good luck. I promised them I'd tell them all about my adventure the next

day at dinner, with or without the victory cup…" Cedric's ghostly eyes had
gone thoughtful. "Cho Chang met me by the door on the way out of the
hall. She wished me luck in the maze. I wanted to kiss her, but I didn't, not
right there in the entrance to the Great Hall with everyone looking. I
promised myself I would kiss her afterwards. Actually, I think I cared even
more about that than I did about winning the cup. Kissing Cho was going to
be the real prize…" Cedric paused, and then blinked, shaking himself. He
glanced at James, Rose, and Ralph, as if remembering they were there. "But
that never happened, of course. It feels like it was yesterday. It feels like if I
went down to dinner now, Cho would be there, watching for me. There
would be Stebbins, and Cadwallader, and Muriel, all anxious for me to
regale them with the details of my trip through the maze. That's how it feels
to me, but it's not true. They wouldn't be down there. Not really. They've all
grown and moved on. I'm just a distant memory. Instead, my old table
would be full of people I don't know. They'd not even recognize me." He
shook his head again. "Maybe someday I'll be able to come down. But not
yet. I can't."
Rose reached out to pat Cedric's arm, but her hand went right through
it. "I'm so sorry, Cedric," she said. "You can come with us whenever you
want to. Your old friends won't be there, but there might be some new
friends waiting."
Cedric nodded and smiled, but James didn't think the ghost believed
Rose's words.
"Will we be seeing you around?" James asked him.
"Sure," Cedric agreed. "Maybe the whole 'Specter of Silence' thing is a
bit too much. Next time, I'll tone it down."
The three students turned and made their way back along the corridor.
As they rounded the corner, James glanced back. There was no sign of
Cedric's ghost, but James had a sense that he was still there anyway. James
waved goodbye, then caught up to Ralph and Rose.
As they passed the great open doorway looking out over the courtyard,

James stopped. In the blue evening gloom, a small group of students was
gathered near the gate. James noticed they were all Slytherins, and Albus
was standing in the center of them. With a start, James realized it was
Wednesday night, the night Tabitha Corsica had planned to 'make
arrangements' with Albus.
"Hold up," James said quietly, stopping Ralph and Rose. As casually
as he could, he sauntered over to the door and slipped into the shadows,
watching the group of Slytherins.
"What's going on out there?" Rose asked, joining James. James
shushed her.
Tabitha was talking to Albus, smiling prettily, nodding her head. Philia
Goyle and Tom Squallus hovered nearby along with a few other Slytherins
whom James didn't know. James couldn't hear what they were saying. As
the crowd shifted, James saw that Tabitha Corsica was holding something
tall and thin, wrapped in a black sleeve.
"That's most of the Slytherin Quidditch team," Ralph explained in a
low voice. "There's Beetlebrick. He's the Keeper. Fiera and Havelock are
Beaters."
James narrowed his eyes. "One guess what Corsica has in that black
cover."
The Slytherins suddenly turned and began to walk out of the courtyard.
Albus was leading, laughing, and gesturing happily. James slipped through
the doorway, following.
"Where are you going?" Ralph asked.
"What's it look like? I'm going to follow them. Corsica is planning to
put Al on that flying curse of hers."
Ralph grimaced. "What are you planning to do, stop them?"

"I know you can't help me, Ralph," James said quickly, "since they're
your housemates and all. But I'm going to go see what they're planning, at
least."
"It's not that," Ralph replied. "I just think it's Albus' choice. I sort of
think maybe… you shouldn't get involved."
"I'll take that into consideration," James muttered darkly. He jumped
out into the quickly darkening courtyard. A moment later, he heard
footsteps as someone followed him.
"You don't have to come, Rose," James said, stopping at the courtyard
gate.
"What kind of a thing is that to say?" she whispered harshly. "I was
going to spy on them whether you did or not."
James smiled at her. Together, they hunkered down and slunk around
the edge of the gate, watching for the departing Slytherins. The gloom of
the approaching night made it difficult to see. After a moment, Rose
pointed. James followed her direction and saw the robed figures cresting a
hill a hundred yards away. They were heading for the Quidditch pitch, of
course. Keeping as low as they could, Rose and James followed.
As they neared the pitch, James motioned for Rose to follow him. He
led her in a curving path around the side of the Gryffindor grandstand. As
quietly as they could, they crept up the wooden staircase to the lowest level.
There, they crouched before the guardrail and peered down into the dark
pitch.
The group of Slytherins stood on the centerline. James could hear their
voices indistinctly. Tabitha seemed to be the one speaking. There was some
motion as the figures moved about, and James silently cursed himself for
leaving his glasses in his bag.
"What's going on?" he whispered helplessly. "I can barely see who is

who."
"Tabitha just took the cover off of a broom," Rose whispered back.
"She seems to be explaining how it works to Albus. He looks pretty anxious
to fly it. He can barely stand still. Looks like he has to go to the loo."
James could see what happened next. Tabitha held the broom out to
Albus. He took it in both hands and looked at it, then looked back up at her.
James couldn't see his face, but he knew Albus was grinning that infectious,
reckless grin of his. Finally, the other Slytherins stepped back away from
him, leaving him in the center of a rough circle. Albus hefted the broom
with one hand, as if testing its weight and balance on his palm. Then, deftly,
he tossed it into the air. It came down and bobbed next to him at hip height.
James struggled with the urge to shout out, to warn Albus. James had ridden
that broom once, and it had been a dreadful disaster. There was something
extremely unusual about the magic of it. It had fought James and very
nearly killed him. When Tabitha rode it during Quidditch matches, it
seemed to exercise a very suspicious influence over the brooms around it,
and even, James suspected, the Snitch itself. Rose hooked her hand into
James' collar and pulled him down. James hadn't realized he'd begun to
stand, preparing to call a warning to his brother. He glanced at her, his eyes
wide.
"Don't," she mouthed, shaking her head.
James looked back down at the pitch. Albus reached out and wrapped
his hand around the handle of the floating broom. Quickly, as if purposely
not thinking about it, he swung a leg over it, straddled it, and kicked off.
The broom shot straight up, spinning slowly and carrying Albus high into
the deepening night. It reached the top level of the grandstands and stopped
gently. Albus was merely a black shape outlined against the dusky sky. As
James watched, he crouched low over the broomstick. It shot forward,
perfectly in control. Distantly, Albus ballyhooed happily, his voice echoing
over the nearby hills.
Rose leaned toward James. "I had flying lessons with Albus on
Tuesday," she whispered. "He couldn't fly like that then."

James pressed his lips into a thin line. He glared down at the assembly
of Slytherins on the field but couldn't make anything out. If any of them
were directly influencing Albus' flight with their wands, he couldn't tell it.
In the silence of the descending night, James could hear the swish and
flap of his brother's inaugural flight. Albus flickered and swooped over the
pitch and the nearby hills, whooping with delight. Finally, after a few
minutes of random soaring, he dipped into a long, curving bank over all
four of the house grandstands, picking up speed. James and Rose crouched
as low as they could as Albus swept in over the Gryffindor gangway. He
turned the broomstick easily and pulled it to a hovering stop near the flags
that topped the grandstand. James held his breath, hoping that the shadow
of the seats was enough to hide him and Rose. Albus took a deep breath,
aimed the broom back down toward the pitch, and suddenly stopped. He
seemed to be looking directly at James, but in the darkness, it was very hard
to tell. He was probably looking past James, down to the Slytherins
standing in the center of the pitch below. Finally, Albus leaned forward. The
broomstick pitched into a steep dive, sweeping over the rows of seats.
James crouched as low as he could, fearing Albus might actually graze him
when he passed over the guardrail. As James ducked, a hand reached down
and tousled his hair, fleetingly. The wind of Albus' passing subsided, and
James heard his brother laughing as he swooped into the darkness of the
pitch.
"That little prat!" James rasped. Rose shushed him.
Albus descended in a tightening circle, finally bringing the broom to a
landing as gentle as a dandelion seed. The Slytherins applauded and
collapsed around Albus, congratulating him.
"A natural," Tabitha's voice rang out on the breeze. "Just like your
father."
"'Natural' nothing!" James hissed under his breath. Rose tugged at his
robes, pulling him down into the shadows again. Together, they watched the

group of Slytherins walk back across the pitch, their voices lost in the rising
wind. As James watched, he saw Albus glance up at him and grin.
After a minute, James and Rose climbed down from the grandstand
and retraced their steps back to the castle.
"You saw the way he operated that broom," James exclaimed,
struggling to keep his voice low. "Or to be perfectly accurate, the way it
operated him!"
Rose answered thoughtfully, "I admit it looked a little suspicious. But
you said yourself you could barely control a broom until you got your
Thunderstreak. Maybe Albus just needed to get on the right sort of broom
to show his stuff."
James shook his head, exasperated. "You don't understand. I tried to
ride that broom myself, once. It about murdered me!"
"Well, you weren't supposed to be riding it, then, were you? Some new
brooms are smart that way. Even yours has the 'Extra-Gestural
Enhancement' option, doesn't it? Once it bonded with you, anybody else
who tried to ride it would have serious trouble."
"Look," James said, throwing up his hands, "you just have to trust me
on this, Rose. That broom's cursed, somehow. And Tabitha is probably the
one that cursed it."
Rose looked sideways at him. "Why would you say that?"
James shook his head. "It's a long story. But I'm telling you, there's
something especially wicked about her. You probably wouldn't believe me
even if I told you. Hardly anybody else does."
"Well," Rose replied, keeping her voice as even as possible, "maybe
there's a good reason for that."
"Who's side are you on anyway?"

"Excuse me," Rose said, getting angry. "You mean am I on James
Potter's side or Albus Potter's side? Because I didn't know I needed to
choose."
James sighed hugely. "Just forget it. Sorry, Rose."
Rose looked at him for a long moment as they neared the courtyard
gate. "Flying runs in the Potter blood, James. You can't know that Albus
isn't just that good by his nature. The whole reason first-years are allowed
to try out for Quidditch is because of how good your dad was his first year.
But if there is something strange about that broom, or Tabitha Corsica
herself, I'll be the first one to help you tell Albus about it. All right?"
James smiled wanly. "You promise?"
Rose nodded. Together, they entered the courtyard and climbed into
the light of the main hall. Ralph was sitting on the bottom of the main
staircase, waiting for them. James smiled.
"He flew it, I'm guessing," Ralph said, getting up to join them.
"How'd you know?" Rose asked.
"Albus and the rest just passed me on the way in to dinner," Ralph
said. "Albus came over and told me to give you a message when you came
in. He said he might just steal your place at the next family Quidditch
match."
James rolled his eyes and glanced at Rose. "Don't you laugh," he said,
pointing a finger at her.
"I didn't say anything," she replied, covering her mouth with her hand.
"Come on. Let's get inside for dinner before they close the doors on us."

6. THE KING OF THE CATS
Thursday morning, James and Ralph's first class was Wizard Literature.
The classroom was a semicircular gallery attached to the rear of the library.
Windows lined the curving wall, filling the room with morning sunlight.
The new Wizard Literature teacher, Juliet Revalvier, sat at her desk, leafing
through a large book as the students found their seats. Compared to most of
the Hogwarts teaching staff, Professor Revalvier was relatively young and
petite. Her dark blonde hair was cut shoulder-length, framing an open,
friendly face. With her reading glasses on, James thought she looked a bit
like a brainy pixie.
"Not you again," Ralph whispered as Rose slipped into the seat next to
him.

"I specifically asked to test into this class if I could," Rose explained,
pulling her Wizlit textbook out of her book bag. "I've got all of Revalvier's
books on the classics of magical literature. You know, she even wrote a few
novels herself, a couple of decades ago, although they were mostly
marketed to Muggles under a made-up name. It was all a bit controversial."
"Yeah, I know about those," James said, remembering Cameron
Creevey and his mention of the novelizations of the adventures of Harry
Potter. "That was her, was it?"
"Well, her and a few other people. It was a test project, spearheaded by
one of the big wizard publishing companies. I think the problem was that it
was, if anything, rather too much of a success. The Ministry ended up
getting involved and there was quite a hoo-ha. Apparently, publishing true
accounts of the wizarding world as fiction in the Muggle world is a
violation of the Law of Secrecy, although the Wizengamot never convicted
her of anything. She was stripped of most of her royalties, which explains
why she ended up here, teaching."
As if on cue, Professor Revalvier closed her book and stood, tucking
her reading glasses into her robe. She consulted the clock on the back wall
of the room and cleared her throat.
"Behold, what manner of worlds are these," she said, smiling a little
and letting her gaze roam from face to face across the room, "that conjure
from the souls of men so readily the primest keystones of the heart? How
were wrought these realms that no hand can touch, yet spear to the
foundation of all that is most genuine? Dare I declare the pedestal upon
which these kingdoms arise and the bricks its walls comprise? Not stone
nor wood nor precious jewels can stand the trials of time, further than the
realms begotten of words and thoughts and rhyme."
The professor took a deep breath, then, in a different voice, said, "That
was a quote from one of the magical world's oldest and most revered
ballads, The Heraldium. There is no record of the author of that work, nor
any reliable date of when it was penned. We know nothing of the time in

which it was written: not who was king, not in what city it originated, not
even the language that framed it. And yet the ballad itself persists. If there
was any proof of the theme of the ballad—that there is no kingdom more
beautiful, effective, and everlasting than the kingdom made of words—then
that proof is The Heraldium itself, which has long outlasted the civilization
that birthed it."
Out of the corner of his eye, James saw Rose scribbling notes
feverishly. This, he knew, was just the sort of stuff she lived for. He looked
down at his own parchment, which was still blank, and wondered if it was
worth the effort to take his own notes, or if there was any hope of Rose
letting him crib off of her.
"The magical world is very old, and therefore has a very rich literary
history, as evidenced by the library adjacent," Revalvier went on, gesturing
toward the packed bookshelves lining the back of the room. "We have no
hope of exploring even a tenth of that history. We will, however, choose
major works representative of each age, and by digging into them as deeply
as we can, seek to better understand the times from which they come. Many
people find literature boring. Those unfortunate people have simply never
had the stories opened well for them. I will do my best to open these stories
well for you, students. With any luck, we will see these tales come alive.
And not just the tales in the special section of the library where the books
must be chained to the shelves to keep them from escaping."
There was a ripple of polite laughter. Revalvier accepted it with a
deprecating smile.
"We will begin our exploration of the world of magical literature with
a challenge. Rather than a famous classic or a revered ballad, let us begin
with something a bit more accessible. Let us have some volunteers. Will
someone tell me, please, what was your favorite bedtime story whilst
growing up?"
James looked around the room. A Ravenclaw girl named Kendra
Corner raised her hand. Revalvier nodded at her encouragingly.

"Like, any story?" Kendra asked. "Even if it's short?"
Revalvier smiled. "Especially if it is short, Miss Corner."
"Well," Kendra said, her cheeks reddening a little, "my favorite story
when I was little was The Three Foolish Harridans."
"Very good, Miss Corner," Revalvier said. "I imagine many of us have
heard that account of the three old women taking their goods to market. A
very old story, that, and an excellent example. Anyone else?"
Graham answered next, "The story I remember most is the one about
the giant and the beanstalk. Some Muggle kid finds some magic beans, and
then climbs the magical beanstalk that grows out of them. A giant lives at
the top, and the Muggle kid tries to pinch the giant's stuff, but the giant
catches the kid and smashes him up into bread. The moral was about how
careless magic brings trouble for everybody."
"Another classic example, Mr. Warton," Revalvier agreed, "although
yours illustrates how stories tend to evolve over time, based on shifts in
culture."
Several others described their favorite stories, ending with Rose,
whose favorite story, not surprisingly, was one of the tales of Beedle the
Bard. "Babbitty Rabbitty and her Cackling Stump. My mum read it to me
from a very old version of the book she got from a former Headmaster,
Albus Dumbledore," she said with some pride.
"Certainly, most of us are very familiar with The Tales of Beedle the
Bard," Professor Revalvier said, leaning comfortably on her desk, "though
not all of us were fortunate enough to be read them from such an illustrious
source. Indeed, these are all very good examples of classic wizarding
literature. They all have some very important things in common. They are
all quite old. They are all primarily passed on by word of mouth. And they
are all meant to teach important life lessons. Less obviously, these stories
tell us subtle things about the times in which they were created. For

instance, the days of frail old women pushing cartloads of goods to market
are long past, and yet they seem familiar to us because we all grew up with
the story of The Three Foolish Harridans. The beauty of great literature,
even in the form of children's stories, is that they teach us things about life,
history, the world we live in, and even about ourselves, without us ever
knowing it. The point is, the very best lessons in life are the ones we are not
aware of learning. These are the lessons literature can teach us."
"Let us look at another example, one which was not mentioned so far.
When I was a little girl, my favorite bedtime story was a tale called The
King of the Cats. Do any of you know that story?"
Tentatively, Ralph raised his hand. "I think I know that one, but my
version might be a little different. I grew up with Muggles. Or so I thought."
"Many stories with magical origins have found their way into Muggle
myth and legend, Mr. Deedle. Would you care to tell us the version you are
familiar with?"
Ralph sucked his upper lip for a moment, thinking. "Well, all right," he
agreed. He took a deep breath and began. "This man is going for a walk in
the country one day, really far away from where he lives. No one else is
around and there aren't any houses for days in any direction. All of a
sudden, he sees a whole bunch of mice. At first, he thinks that he should
chase them off, but then he notices that they aren't acting like regular mice.
They seem to be walking in a sort of procession, and they are carrying
something. The man crouches down behind some bushes because he doesn't
want to scare the mice, but he's really curious about what they are carrying.
As they pass in front of him, he sees that they are carrying another mouse
on a little tiny bed. The man realizes that the mouse on the bed is dead, and
that this is a little mouse funeral procession.
"As quietly as he can, he follows the procession deep into the woods
until they come to a big, wide clearing, all bright in the sun. In the center of
the clearing is a tiny stone stairway leading to nothing. It just goes up and
stops. There is a big cat sitting at the bottom of the stairs, blocking them.
It's all striped and golden and very serious and solemn-looking. The cat

watches the mouse procession as it crosses the clearing, getting closer and
closer. The man almost calls out to the mice because he is sure the cat will
eat them, funeral or not. But then the mice finally get to the cat and stop
right in front of its paws. They put the tiny bed down and back away. The
big gold cat is watching the whole time with its huge green eyes. Finally, it
bends down and says something to the dead mouse. The mouse jumps up,
alive and dancing. It darts between the golden cat's legs and runs up the
little stone staircase. The man watches, still hiding, as the mouse runs right
past the end of the stone stairs, still going up. The mouse climbs further into
the sky, as if on invisible stairs, until it is completely out of sight. The man
can hardly believe what he is seeing.
"When he looks down again, the rest of the mice are all gone. Only the
big golden cat remains, and it is staring right at him with its big green eyes.
The man is scared of the cat, so he turns on his heels and runs as fast as he
can out of the woods. He doesn't stop running until he gets back on the path,
and he runs the whole path all the way back to his own land and into his
own house. That night, the man sits down at dinner with his family. He tells
them everything he saw that day, and the last thing he says is, 'That cat was
surely the King of the Mice!' Just then, the big old family cat, which up to
that moment had been sleeping in front of the fire, jumps up on its hind feet
and says, plain as day, 'Then I am the King of the Cats!' And it leaps up the
chimney and is never seen again."
Ralph finished telling the story and the room fell strangely quiet.
Professor Revalvier had her eyes closed, as if soaking in the story. The
bright morning sunlight made the room feel strangely sleepy. It seemed to
buzz with warmth, trancelike, as if time had slowed down while Ralph
spoke.
"That was a wonderful telling, Mr. Deedle," Professor Revalvier said,
opening her eyes slowly. "It was indeed slightly different than the version I
remember from my youth, but interestingly so. Have any of the rest of you
heard that story before?"
There were no hands in the room. Ralph glanced around, apparently
rather surprised.

"What is curious about that story?" Revalvier asked the class. "Can
anyone point out a specific difference from this tale and the others we
mentioned earlier?"
Murdock raised his hand. "For one thing, it doesn't make any sense."
The professor inclined her head slightly. "Is that so? Does anyone else
agree with Mr. Murdock's judgment?"
There were nods throughout the room.
"Not that I didn't like it," Morgan Patonia added, raising her hand. "It
was nice. But it was also a little creepy."
Revalvier narrowed her eyes. "And contrary to what might be
expected, the creepiness is somewhat appealing, yes?"
More nods in the room, although they were accompanied by puzzled
looks.
"Why do you suppose your parents might not have told you this story,
apart from Mr. Deedle, of course?"
There was a long pause. Finally, Rose raised her hand.
"All the stories I got told when I was growing up were nice stories,"
she said. "They sometimes had evil witches and wizards in them, but they
didn't have any dead mice or anything. And they all ended happily, or at
least had a moral to them that made them seem happy even if the main
characters were unlucky or did the wrong thing."
Revalvier looked thoughtful. "And this story is not happy? Nor has a
moral?"
James knew not to respond to an obvious question like that. Obvious

answers were never the right answers. Revalvier seemed to approve of the
silence.
"Tonight's homework, students, is for you to write down the story of
The King of the Cats," she said, walking behind her desk. "I'd prefer that
you not consult each other about how the story went. The point of this
exercise is not to perfectly repeat the story as told by Mr. Deedle, but to
write it as you remember it. If your version is somewhat different, all the
better. Looking at how magical stories change through retelling is a very
interesting way to learn things about the teller of the story. In this case, the
teller is you, yourselves. We shall see after you have finished this task if
you still feel that the story has no moral."
Revalvier sat down behind her desk and put her reading glasses back
on. "You are exempted, of course, Mr. Deedle. A reward for your delightful
recital of the story. And now, class, please turn in your textbooks to chapter
one."
The remainder of the class was spent in a lecture about the historical
background of the golden age of magical literature, from which sprang
some of the most well-known (and least read) wizard classics. Revalvier
assured the students that she would do 'everything necessary' to make the
stories relevant to them, and James had some hope that she might actually
succeed in that endeavor. He was quite curious about how she meant to do
it, and looked forward to finding out.
As they left the class, James said to Ralph, "Nice work, speaking up
like that. You saved yourself an essay."
Rose asked, "Did your dad really tell you that story when you were a
kid?"
"Actually, no," Ralph admitted. "My grandma did, whenever I went to
stay with her."
James glanced at Ralph. "I assumed it'd been your dad too. After all,
he had the wizard background, growing up."

Rose commented, "Well, it's just like Professor Revalvier said. Lots of
wizard stories leak out into Muggle culture as legends and myths.
Obviously, The King of the Cats is like that. That's how Ralph's grandma
knew it."
Ralph nodded. "She was full of stories like that. They were all a little
weird and eerie, but I liked that about them. They were… well, they were
sort of magical. I had really mad dreams whenever she told me those
stories. Not bad dreams exactly, but…" He shook his head, unable to find
the right word.
"That happens to me whenever I eat my Uncle Dmitri's special
paprikash," Graham interjected. "He makes it every Christmas. He says the
magic ingredient is powdered Mandrake root, but Mum says the magic
ingredient is a pint of goblin rum."

James had expected the Wizlit essay to be fairly easy, but as he sat in
the library that night with his quill and parchment, he found himself staring
out the window at the moon, tapping his quill idly. Finally, he shook his
head as if clearing it.
"It's really strange," he commented to Ralph, who was bent over his
Arithmancy problems. "I can totally remember you telling us the story in
class. I could probably sit here and tell it back to you right now. But when I
try to write it down, it goes all murky in my head."
Ralph sat back and stretched. "What do you mean? If you could tell it,
why can't you write it?"

"Beats me. I mean, I know it starts with a guy walking through the
woods. I write down that much, and suddenly, I can't remember if it's day or
night when he's walking. I start to imagine where he might be walking to.
Why's he so far away from his own home? And why is it no one else lives
anywhere around for miles and miles? It's mice he sees, right? Only, when I
start to write, I keep imagining squirrels. Or voles."
"Voles?" Ralph repeated, making a face. "What in the world is a vole?"
"I don't know," James said, throwing up his hands. "Some kind of little
animal, I guess. But that's just the thing. The story sort of squirts away
whenever I try to write it down. It's like it wants to become something else
entirely."
Ralph thought about it and finally shook his head. "That doesn't make
a bit of sense. You want me to tell you how it goes again?"
James sighed. "No. Revalvier said we're not supposed to do it that way.
She made it sound like we were supposed to write it down however we
remembered it. I just didn't expect it to fight back. I mean, it's just a bedtime
story."
Ralph shrugged. "Well, it is a magical bedtime story."
"Not your version," James replied. "Your Muggle grandma told you. I
figured it had to be your mum's mum because as far as you knew, your dad
was an orphan."
Ralph nodded but remained silent.
James was about to make another attempt at his version of The King of
the Cats when Petra Morganstern walked slowly around the end of a nearby
bookshelf.
"Hi, Petra," James said, trying to keep his voice low enough not to earn
a stern look from the librarian.

Petra was rather listlessly scanning the bookshelf, her bag dangling
from one hand. She seemed not to have heard him.
"I say hi, Petra!" James repeated, framing his mouth with his hands.
Petra turned and raised her eyes. She saw James and blinked, her large
blue eyes distant. "Oh," she said. "Hi, James. Sorry. I didn't see you." She
turned back to the bookshelves. "I'm not really sure what I'm looking for…"
James watched Petra as she moved down the aisle, dragging her bag.
"What's with her?" he whispered to Ralph as she got out of earshot.
Ralph shook his head. "I don't know."
Rose plunked a pile of books on the table and sat down. "No harm
getting a head start on Wizlit," she proclaimed happily. "These are the ten
books the textbook says are a must-read for every thinking witch and
wizard. I've read four of them before, but it never hurts to get a bit of a
refresher."
"Hey, Rose," James interrupted, leaning close. "What's going on with
Petra?"
"Petra?" Rose repeated, distracted. "Why should anything be going on
with her?"
"She just went by a minute ago looking like her owl just died."
Rose thought for a moment. "I couldn't guess. She seemed fine at
lunch today, although she left early when she got the package."
"What package?" Ralph asked.
"Oh, you two were already gone," Rose explained, pulling the top
book off of her stack and opening it. "A box came by Ministry owl for her.

Apparently, it was from her father. She left right afterwards. I assumed she
wanted to open it in private."
James tilted his head. "Why would a package from her father come by
Ministry owl?"
Rose raised her eyebrows. "I assume her father works there. Loads of
people send personal mail using company post. Dad does it sometimes,
although Mum says he shouldn't. Things like that get her a little uptight."
"Maybe it was bad news from home," Ralph mused.
"It looked like more than just a letter," Rose replied. "I assumed it was
sweets from her mum or a birthday present or something."
James frowned, looking in the direction Petra had wandered. "If sweets
from her mum make her look like that, Petra's mum must be a pretty rotten
cook."
Rose suddenly brightened. She leaned in and whispered, "I just ran
into Fiona Fourcompass over in the reference section, and she said she
knows why this week's Muggle Studies classes have been postponed so
far!"
Ralph said, "I thought it was just because Professor Curry wasn't back
from some sort of research trip. Fine by me, too. She can go off researching
for the whole term."
"That's sort of true," Rose nodded. "But it's what she's been
researching that's key. She got back yesterday, and tomorrow afternoon
there's going to be a big assembly of all the Muggle Studies classes for all
years. She's going to make an announcement about this term's class, and
whatever it is will affect everybody!"
James looked skeptical. "Fiona Fourcompass told you that? How
would she know?"

"She saw Professor Curry earlier today, outside her office," Rose
explained earnestly. "She was unpacking from her trip and she told Fiona
about the assembly. She said afternoon classes will let out early so everyone
can attend."
"Did she mention what the big deal was?" Ralph asked.
Rose shook her head. "She didn't say, and Fiona didn't ask. I'm really
curious though."
"Well," James replied, "she had us playing football last year, and that
was actually pretty fun. Maybe it'll be something like that. But why the
whole school at once?"
"That'd be quite a football match," Ralph agreed.
A little while later, James, Ralph, and Rose noticed it was getting
rather late. Most of the other students had gone and the librarian was
blowing out the lanterns near the deserted tables. The three packed their
books, quills, and parchments into their bags and threaded their way
through the bookshelves.
"Hey, Rose," James asked, "have you started your Wizlit homework
yet?"
"The King of the Cats essay? I finished it first thing. Why?"
James glanced at her. "Just curious, that's all. It wasn't… difficult?"
Rose shouldered her book bag. "Man walks through the woods, sees a
bunch of mice having a funeral procession, follows them, so on and so
forth. Easiest homework I had all night."
James frowned thoughtfully. "Oh. Well, good."
"I got a little confused when I got to the part with the skunk though,"

Rose added, angling toward the library doors.
"The skunk?" Ralph asked, blinking.
"Yeah. I couldn't remember if it was in front of the stairs or sitting on
them. I forgot the color of its stripe too. It was green, right?"
Ralph stared at her, and then looked back at James. James shrugged
and shook his head.
As they left the library, James saw that there was one other person still
there. Sitting at a table in the rear alcove, alone in a pool of lamplight, was
Petra. Her head was lowered, her long dark hair hanging on either side of
her face like a curtain. On the table in front of her was a single piece of
parchment. James waited to see if she'd look up, but she never moved. It
pained him a little to see Petra so suddenly melancholy. He considered
calling to her but decided not to. Most likely, he would see her later in the
common room anyway. Perhaps she'd be in better spirits then.
James said goodnight to Ralph as they parted ways at the stairs. Rose
accompanied James to the common room where they sat by the fireplace
and watched a rowdy Winkles and Augers match for a while. Finally, they
headed up the stairs to their respective dormitories. Scorpius was already in
bed. He was sitting up, reading a book called True Stories of Dragons and
Dragon Hunters. He was wearing his rimless spectacles, and they did, in
fact, manage to make him look more dashing than dorky. He glanced over
his glasses as James entered the room.
"Nice bedtime story," James muttered.
"Would you prefer The Three Foolish Harridans?" Scorpius drawled,
turning a page. "Or maybe one of Revalvier's old bedtime stories about your
father?"
James threw back the blankets on his new bed. The words 'WHINY
POTTER GIT' still glowed a faint purple on the headboard. James' efforts to

remove them had been entirely unsuccessful. He dressed in his pyjamas and
climbed under the covers, throwing a disgruntled look at Scorpius.
"I hear your brother is looking good to make the Slytherin Quidditch
team," Scorpius commented, his eyes still on his book.
James sat up again. "You keeping close tabs on your dad's house,
Scorpius? Is he planning to come for the matches? I wonder who he'll
support. A bit of a stumper, that one."
"I understand Albus is riding Corsica's broom," Scorpius said, finally
looking James in the eye.
James met Scorpius' gaze, unsure what to say. Was Scorpius teasing
him? Or was this some kind of warning? "Yeah, I know," James finally
admitted. "I saw him. So what?"
"I had flying with dear little Albus earlier this week, along with your
cousin Rose. Improved since then, has he?"
James rolled over. "What's it to you anyway?"
"Nothing, really," Scorpius said. "Just trying to make a little
conversation. You intend to try out for the Gryffindor team, I assume?"
"Maybe I am," James admitted. "Are you?"
Scorpius didn't answer right away. James looked back over his
shoulder. Scorpius glanced up from his book again. "No, Potter," he said,
sighing. "Organized sport is so… parochial. Let's just say I'll be using my
talents in less obvious ways."
James rolled his eyes and flopped over onto his side again. Scorpius
was just trying to pique him. That's what his talent was, and apparently,
James was his favorite target.
It wasn't until James was falling asleep that it occurred to him that he

had not seen Petra come up to the common room after all.

James was just finishing his breakfast the next morning when Nobby
swooped over him and dropped a letter onto his plate. James scooped it up
quickly and waved at Nobby, who banked and flapped upwards through the
rafters, disappearing through a window along with the rest of the morning's
owls.
The letter was from Lucy, and it was surprisingly fat.
"What's that?" Rose asked, leaning toward James.
"A response from Lucy," James replied, quickly stuffing the letter into
his bag.
"So read it already," Rose said, reaching for another piece of toast.
James clambered over the bench and stood. "Can't. I have to get to
class. I've got to get to the North Tower. Divination this morning."
"I'm in the same class, James. We have plenty of time."
"I, uh, left my homework in the dorm. I better go and grab it."
Rose glared suspiciously at James, but he turned and trotted away
before she could argue. He took a rather circuitous route in the direction of
the North Tower but stopped at an empty stairway. He sat on the bottom
step and retrieved Lucy's letter from his bag. As he tore it open he saw that

the parchment was wrapped around a folded newspaper clipping. He read
the letter first.
Dear James,
Thanks for writing. We're currently at home, which is very
nice for me, but not so nice for getting any pictures of anything
interesting for Rose, sorry. I had a feeling about Albus. Really, I
don't think anyone will be very surprised about his ending up in
Slytherin. I wondered if I might end up there myself. Is that awful
of me? I do hope it's not. Daddy told me all about your Debellows
teacher. He seems quite impressed with him, and is very proud to
have met him a few times.
I looked up the Gatekeeper like you asked. There was
actually quite a lot of information about it. I just had to know
where to look. Fortunately, since we're home, I have access to the
wizarding library over in Notting Hill. Mum takes me there once a
week, although she'd die if she knew what sections I had to go to
research this. The Gatekeeper has loads of names, and all of them
are pretty scary, which makes sense once you know what it is.
According to the old myths, the Gatekeeper is the Guardian
between the worlds of the living and the dead. It lives in
something called the Transitus Nihilo—the Void between the
worlds—and is a purely magical being. Basically, it's just this
huge, lurking entity because it has no body and no boundary
since it lives in pure nothingness. Supposedly, it doesn't even
know about earth or humans because it is too arrogant to assume
that there could be any living thing other than itself. But the
scariest thing about it is something called 'the Curse of the
Gatekeeper'. Salazar Slytherin talked a lot about it. He said it
would be his 'Final Judgment' on those that betrayed him.
Basically, the Curse says that someday the Gatekeeper will be
summoned by a person called the Ambassador, who is a wizard
powerful enough to travel into the Void. The Gatekeeper follows
the Ambassador back, and its descent is a sign of total doom.

Once it's here, the Gatekeeper feeds on horror and pain, sucking
it out of people like a vampire sucks blood. The legends say it will
study humans, learning how best to terrify them, and in the
greatest numbers. Apparently though, it'll need to partner with a
willing human host, a host that will be prepared to kill for it to
prove their worth. All the prophecies say this host will be a child
of tragedy—probably meaning an orphan, somebody with nothing
to lose. Very, very gruesome stuff.
I am really curious, James: why are you asking about this?
I'd be surprised if you are studying something like this in school.
Why do you need to keep it a secret? This is seriously scary old
magic. The book I read about it in nearly nipped my thumb off.
Tell me, OK?
Love,
Lucy
P.S. This is a clipping from a Muggle newspaper I saw on the
way home from the library. It's probably nothing, but I couldn't
help noticing it after what I'd just read about. It's not connected,
do you think?
James slowly folded the letter, his eyes wide. A cold sweat had beaded
on his forehead. Lucy's words were eerily similar to some of the things
Farrigan, the skeleton in the cave, had said. But surely, Merlin couldn't
really be the Ambassador of such a horrible creature, could he? At least not
knowingly. But either way, what if his long trek into the Void had
summoned the thing called the Gatekeeper? James shook his head fretfully.
The newspaper clipping slipped off his lap and fell onto the floor. James
peered at it. He could tell by the colors and typeface that the clipping came
from a Muggle tabloid. Reluctantly, he picked it up and unfolded it. He read
the headline, grimaced, and then plunged into the article.

Entire Family Terrorized by 'Alien Ghost Demon'; Two
Driven Insane
The quaint seaside village of Kensington Flats was rocked early
this summer by rumors of a ghostly creature residents came to
call the 'creature of smoke and ash'. Recognized by its fantastic
appearance, the entity appeared on several occasions over the
third week of May. In one instance, no less than a dozen villagers
claimed to witness the entity in the Colt and Cockerel, a small
pub on the village's outskirts. While none were willing to speak
directly to Inside View, earlier reports claim that the entity exuded
a 'palpable air of horror and panic, resulting in a sense of
spreading, even contagious, insanity'.
These visitations culminated on the night of 17 May when the
home of Herbert Bleeker was terrorized for as long as three hours
by the entity. Neighbors claimed to hear unearthly noises coming
from the house as well as all manner of shrieks and strange lights.
Mr. Bleeker, a grocer, along with his wife and adult son, Charlie,
were inside the home at the time, although neighbors were
apparently too frightened to check on them. The next morning, all
three Bleekers were found on their front lawn, looking, as one
witness described, 'like they'd had their brains scrambled'. Later
checked into an asylum in neighboring Dunfief, the Bleekers
were described as unresponsive and delirious.
Twenty-four hours later, Charlie Bleeker began to respond to
doctors. He described the visitation of the entity as an evening of
freakish terrors. "It was like it was dissecting our brains from the
inside out," Bleeker is heard to have said. "It was like we were
radios, and it was tuning us, trying to make us feel the worst
horrors imaginable! It was monstrous! Terrible! Like it didn't
even know what we were but wasn't going to stop until it found
out!"
Mr. Bleeker slipped back into incoherence after this short
outburst, although he appears to be responding moderately well to

treatments. His parents, however, remain virtually comatose.
Professor Liam Kirkwood of the Department of Paranormal
Research at the University of Northern Heatherdown says such
manifestations are on the increase. "Similar reports have emerged
all across the country, and beyond. Most likely, this is the work of
an alien species, researching humankind for its own unknowable
reasons. We can only hope that whatever it is, its goals are not as
frightening as it initially seems."
Inside View will follow these occurrences, providing further
updates as circumstances dictate.
Slowly, James folded the tabloid clipping. He stuffed it and Lucy's
letter back into the envelope. It couldn't be connected, he told himself. It
was just a tabloid story. A lot of them were rather sensational, weren't they?
Aliens and monsters and saints' faces being burned onto toast. Even so, the
thought of the 'creature of smoke and ash' made him shudder. What if it was
the Gatekeeper? What if it was already loosed on the earth and Merlin didn't
even know it? Or worse, what if he knew it and was responsible for it? It
simply couldn't be. It was too horrible. James determined he would have to
find out, one way or another. He didn't know how he'd do it, but he would
find a way. Having decided that, he felt a tiny bit better. He put the letter
back into his bag, shouldered it, and ran the rest of the way to the North
Tower.

"Hup, hup, students!" Kendrick Debellows cried heartily, pacing the
length of the promenade overlooking the lake. "It's not even October yet!
The water's still balmy. It's best if you jump in directly. Take it all on one
shot and you'll be used to it in no time."

James stood between Ralph and Graham, his toes curled over the edge
of the deck. The water below looked cold and murky. His face reflected
back at him, his expression tense and worried.
"I don't know what's worse," Graham muttered through gritted teeth,
"the idea of jumping into that water, or being seen wearing this idiotic
outfit."
None of the students had packed swimwear, of course. Debellows,
being rather insufferably persistent in his goals, had somehow located a
closet of very old bathing suits once worn by an official Hogwarts water
wrestling team. The one-piece suits extended to the elbows and knees and
were striped in faded burgundy and grey. A Hogwarts crest was
embroidered in the center of the chest.
"Who ever heard of 'water wrestling', anyway?" Ralph said.
"Oh, it was huge for a while, back in the old days," Graham replied.
"The mermen had a team. You wouldn't think they'd be all that strong,
looking at them, but I guess they were really wiry."
"Students wore these to wrestle mermen?" James said, glancing down
at his oversized swimsuit.
"Yeah, but the mermen cheated sometimes," Graham explained. "The
whole event was scrapped when the merman captain was found with a
Grindylow hidden under his cape. He was apparently using it to batten on to
his opponent and pull them down."
On the grass bordering the edge of the lake, the second-year girls were
supposedly running reflex drills, waving pommel-tipped sticks at each
other. Most of them seemed to have abandoned the activity, choosing
instead to stand in groups and watch the boys, smirking or looking bored.
Debellows ignored them.
"This is very simple, students," Debellows called. "Jump in, swim out

to the buoy, circle it, and swim back to the promenade. It may look far-off,
but I assure you it is quite manageable. I did it myself six times just this
morning. Brisk, it was! Now, does anyone else not know how to swim?"
The boys stared grimly, none daring to raise their hands. A few
minutes earlier, Ralph's friend Trenton Bloch had admitted he had not yet
learned how to swim. This had seemed, to James, a potentially inspired way
to get out of the dip into the gloomy lake. Rather than excusing Trenton,
however, Debellows had produced a set of inflatable rubber arm floaties. To
Trenton's horror, Debellows had blown up the floaties himself, and then
rammed them up the boy's arms. Trenton stood miserably at the far end of
the promenade, arms akimbo. A couple of girls on the bank snickered at
him.
"This is a test of will, my friends!" Debellows barked. "In the Harriers,
not only did we have to learn to swim at distance, but we were trained for
water combat, facing all sorts of aquatic beasts, from Snarracudas to
Shrieking Eels. You will not face any combat on this endeavor, but we may
introduce a Marshweed course later in the spring if Professor Longbottom is
able to produce a sufficiently tame hybrid. For now, consider this a pleasure
swim. And now, on one… two…" Debellows raised his wand, pointing it
skyward. He grinned happily. "Three!" he shouted, firing a loud crack from
his wand.
The boys scuffled, slithered, and variously lowered themselves into the
water. Their splashes were accompanied by a chorus of groans and
complaints.
"Are there still mermen in here?" Ralph hissed through his teeth,
lowering himself into the cold, black water.
James nodded. "But my dad says it's the mermaids you have to worry
about."
"That's wonderful," Ralph gasped, dropping up to his chin and trying
not to splash. Gamely, he threw himself into a jerky breaststroke, heading
for the orange buoy some fifty yards away. James followed him.

Ralph was a surprisingly good swimmer. By the time James rounded
the buoy, finally getting somewhat accustomed to the water, Ralph was
climbing the ladder onto the promenade. Debellows grabbed his hand and
hoisted him up, nodding approvingly.
James completed his lap and grabbed the slick, seaweed-covered
ladder. He'd swallowed an accidental gulp of the lake water and it rolled
nauseously in his belly as he pulled himself up. He stumbled onto the deck
and joined Ralph and Graham. All three stood shivering, streaming water
from their oversized swimsuits.
"Let's double-time it, Bloch!" Debellows boomed, cupping his hands
to his mouth. "Pretend you've got a Slagbelly chasing you. It could be true,
in fact! I hear they've been sighted on the far side of the lake. And I
understand they're attracted to splashes."
"Professor Debellows," a voice called. James turned, his teeth
chattering. Professor McGonagall stood at the castle end of the promenade.
She glanced quickly around but kept her face neutral. "The students are
expected to be in the amphitheater in fifteen minutes. You do recall that
today's class is to be concluded early."
"We are very nearly finished, Madam," Debellows called, clapping
Ralph on the shoulder. "I daresay we will beat you to the assembly if you
don't hurry." He turned, addressing the boys on the deck. "You heard the
professor! Gather your shoes and form a line. I'll dry you as you pass by,
then we'll have ourselves a nice trot around to the amphitheater. You can
change afterwards."
Debellows produced his wand and pointed it at James, who was
nearest. A blast of hot air erupted from the tip, pushing James backwards a
step. A moment later, he was mostly dry. His hair stuck straight up from his
head like a corona.
"We have to wear these stupid swimsuits to the assembly?" James
asked incredulously.

"They're perfectly decent, Mr. Potter," Debellows replied dismissively.
"Even rather stylish, if you ask me. We haven't a moment to lose, students.
The amphitheater can be found around the East Rampart. Let's prove
ourselves exemplary and precede the rest of the classes there, shall we?
Now run, my friends! And Mr. Bloch! Will you be finishing your lap this
term, or shall I send Mr. Deedle in to retrieve you?"
By the time James got to the outside amphitheater entrance, he was
sweaty and out of breath. Most of the other classes were already gathering,
their voices ringing in the natural acoustics of the space. James grimaced,
seeing the hundreds of robed figures milling about. It was nearly impossible
to remain inconspicuous in the oversized, striped swimsuits. James and
Ralph huddled near the back, trying unsuccessfully to hide behind each
other. Scorpius was the first to notice them. He walked past with a group of
first-year Gryffindors, smirking. Cameron saw James and made to grin and
wave. His grin turned slightly puzzled when he saw James' attire.
"I see none of the second-year girls are wearing swimsuits," Rose
commented, slipping in next to James. "Defence Against the Dark Arts, I
assume?"
James nodded. "It's OK though. Debellows says these are actually
quite stylish. Come on, let's find a seat."
James' last time in the amphitheater had been the previous term, on the
night of the first all-school debate. That had been a fairly unpleasant
occasion, in which Tabitha Corsica had proclaimed from the stage that
Harry Potter was a fraud and a liar. An all-out riot had been barely
prevented by a well-timed bit of absurd fireworks, produced by Ted Lupin
and the Gremlins. Now, by daylight, the amphitheater was quite cheerful.
The huge stage was mostly bare; as James looked, a couple of older
Ravenclaw boys climbed up from the orchestra pit. They bowed deeply on
the edge of the stage, and then began to make faces and blow raspberries at
the crowd. There was some scattered applause and hooting until Professor
McGonagall shooed them back to their seats.

As James, Ralph, and Rose sidled into a row, Noah Metzker called
from nearby. "Interesting choice of uniform, you two. The stripes say
'Azkaban', but the cut says 'exercise yard'."
"Har, har," James groused. "You'll be next, Metzker."
"Actually, we already did the lake run," Noah replied seriously. "Just
wait until sixth year. Debellows shoots Stinging Hexes at you from the
shore. It's supposed to teach you 'the mental discipline of overcoming
pain'."
Damien nodded gravely. "All I had to overcome was a burning desire
to clip him upside the ear."
James noticed that Petra wasn't sitting with the rest of the Gremlins.
She sat at the end of the aisle, several rows down. She stared blankly at the
stage.
Finally, Professor Tina Curry climbed the steps to the stage. She wore
a sporty blue cloak over her robes. Her frizzy hair had been teased into a
loose bun.
"Greetings, students," she called, raising her wand to her throat. Her
amplified voice echoed around the amphitheater. The babble of voices
subsided.
"Thank you for attending this rather unusual first class," Curry
continued. "Since nearly all of you are taking Muggle Studies this term,
following the new year-specific curriculum, I thought it'd be rather a treat
for us all to begin the term's endeavor together. As most of you know, I am
Tina Curry, Professor of Muggle Studies, and it is the goal of this class to
teach us to understand the ways and means of the Muggle world. We do this
for a variety of reasons, but primarily because, being witches and wizards,
we have the benefit of knowing of the Muggle world, whereas they know
nothing of us. It is, therefore, incumbent upon us to study the Muggle
world, to understand it as well as possible, so that we may, whenever

necessary, mingle in that world and work comfortably within it. Further, we
must recall our shared humanity, valuing our differences without creating
prejudices from them. Thus, as an exercise, this class encourages us to
immerse ourselves in the Muggle world, utilizing some of the ingenious
tools and methods that they have developed to compensate for their nonmagical nature. Last term, many of you will recall that we played a Muggle
sport called 'football', using only our feet and a simple, unenchanted ball.
This term, we will attempt something on a far greater scale. This endeavor
will require the cooperation of every class. Every one of us will have a
specific duty, and we will accomplish those duties using no spells, potions,
or charms. This term, students, we will be producing a theatrical
presentation of the famous wizard play, The Triumvirate."
A wave of chatter moved through the assembly. James couldn't tell if
the general response was positive or negative.
"What's that about?" Ralph asked.
Rose whispered, "It's a story about a love triangle between a young
witch princess named Astra and two wizards, Treus and Donovan.
Donovan's older and richer, Treus is younger, a captain in the king's army. I
saw it with my mum once when I was little. It's got a huge cast. Should be
interesting."
Near the front of the assembly, Havelock Baumgarten, one of the
Slytherin Beaters, stood up, raising his hand peremptorily. "Professor Curry,
The Triumvirate is a classically magical production," he said in his cultured,
rather smarmy voice. "By its nature, it is dependent on key magical
elements. The dream sequence alone has the heroine flying, imagining
phantom armies, and witnessing the predicted sinking of Treus' galleon in a
hurricane. How can we possibly expect to remain faithful to the story if we
insist on strictly Muggle methods?"
"A legitimate concern, Mr. Baumgarten," Curry replied. "However, I
have just returned from a tour of some of the Muggle world's better theatre
productions, and I must say that the sheer ingenuity and resourcefulness of

those presentations amazed even me. In fact, you may be interested to learn
that even Muggles refer to the 'magic' of theatre."
From the crowd, Victoire spoke up, "But how can Astra fly without
levitation?"
"You'd be quite surprised what can be accomplished with ropes and
pulleys, Miss Weasley," Curry said, smiling. "In fact, I think all of you will
be quite impressed by the amount of mundane 'magic' that can be done
simply with paint, costumes, props, lights, and a seemingly endless number
of stage-hands. This is why I have asked the school to involve all classes in
this rather extensive production. The sheer number of teams and skills
required assures that every one of us will play a vital role in the production.
I will serve as director, of course. The production will run one night only, in
this very amphitheater, the last week of the school term. Your parents and
families will all be invited to attend. It will be, I am quite sure, an evening
that all of us will remember."
The assembly broke apart into hushed babbling again as everyone
considered this rather unusual plan. Professor Curry cleared her throat.
"To this end," she said, raising her voice over the chattering crowd, "I
have posted several sign-up parchments in the hall immediately adjacent to
the amphitheater. Anyone who wishes may try out for a part. Auditions will
be scheduled in class, and parts will be awarded by the end of next week.
Those who do not wish to act onstage may sign up for the orchestra, the
props department, the costume shop, light crew, stage crew, and et cetera. I
am sure everyone will find an area they will enjoy working in. And now,
allow me to be the first to welcome you all to the world of the theatre! The
assembly will conclude now, allowing you plenty of time to consider your
options and sign up for whatever you wish. Thank you, students, and good
evening."
As the assembly broke up and trickled toward the huge castle archway,
Rose said, "You should sign up for a part, James. You're tall for your age. I
bet you could play Treus."

James grimaced. "No way,"
"Why not?" Rose insisted. "Don't tell me you're afraid to get up on
stage in front of everyone."
"No," James said, his face reddening a bit. "It's just silly. I mean, if we
were doing The Last Assault of Keirkengard, I might sign up. At least in
that story there's sword fights and explosions. I was thinking about signing
up for the stage crew."
"Yeah," Ralph agreed. "I'm going to sign up for that or the props
department. This could be kind of fun. I saw a play in London when I was a
kid. It was wicked. I always thought it'd be neat to work behind the scenes."
"I'm putting my name down for Donovan," Noah proclaimed. "I've got
that older, mysterious rogue look down already. I should be a shoo-in."
"It's too bad Ted's gone this year," Sabrina commented. "He'd love this.
I wonder how he's doing with his Quidditch training."
Damien said, "We'll see him Hogsmeade weekend. We have a plan to
meet him at the Triple Sticks."
"As long as he can get off work from Weasleys'," Noah interjected. "I
hear George's been working him like a dog. Ted's not complaining though.
He gets paid on commission, and he's pretty much a walking advertisement,
isn't he?"
The crowd of students thronged near the archway as everyone milled
around the sign-up parchments. Rose broke away, pressing toward the far
end of the hallway. "I'm going to sign up for Astra," she called. "It's
probably a long shot, but I can always fall back on costume shop if that
doesn't work out."
Ralph also shouldered his way into the throng, heading for the props
department sign-up parchment. James watched his friend go, and then

scanned the nearby parchments. The crowd was finally thinning a bit as
most of the students happily found their way to an early dinner. James
glanced around, still hanging back. Satisfied that no one was watching, he
slipped quickly over to the actors' sign-up parchments. He glanced over
them, finding the parchment he was looking for. Grabbing the quill
dangling from a bit of string, he signed his name to the parchment titled
'TREUS'.
It was completely silly, he assured himself. He'd never get the part. It
was just a lark, a personal dare. Still, there was something exciting and
giddy about the idea of playing the dashing male lead. He couldn't bring
himself to admit it to Rose or Ralph. If by some remarkable fluke he were
to get the role, he'd probably acknowledge that he'd secretly wanted to play
it. Otherwise, no one would ever know, and that was just fine. Before
stepping away, James peered quickly at the other names on the parchment.
He'd been halfcertain that Scorpius' name would be on the list. It wasn't,
and he felt a bit silly for looking.
James sauntered as casually as possible over to the group still gathered
around the stage crew sign-up parchment. Ralph was just finishing signing
his name.
"I'm on stage crew and props department," Ralph said. "I hope I can be
on both. What'd you sign up for, James?"
James finished signing his name on the stage crew parchment. He
turned, keeping his face blank, and gestured with the quill before letting it
drop back on its string.
Ralph nodded and smiled. "We'll work together, maybe. Trenton's
signed up for stage crew too, and so is Beetlebrick. He's not so bad if you
can stay off the topic of Quidditch. Did you see what Albus signed up for?"
James shook his head. In fact, he hadn't seen his brother the entire
assembly. "We can ask him at dinner," James replied. "Come on."

It wasn't the first time James had sat at the Slytherin table. The
previous year, he had frequently joined Ralph and Zane for meals under the
green and silver banner. Only now, however, did James realize how
comforting it had been to have his mischievous American friend, who'd
been a Ravenclaw, alongside him in those instances. There were no seats
near Albus, who persisted in being rather a popular character in his new
house. James reluctantly sat with Ralph and Trenton Bloch near the end of
the table.
James was distracted throughout the meal. He was annoyed at having
to go to such lengths to attract the attention of his younger brother. It was
supposed to be the other way around, wasn't it? Albus was simply being
gullible. He believed that the Slytherins were drawn to him for his wit and
personality, but James knew that they were just using him. Having a Potter
amongst the Slytherins was a sort of moral victory for Tabitha Corsica and
her stupid Fang and Talons club. James wanted to warn Albus that the
Slytherins' friendship wasn't sincere, but he was also a little angry with him
for being so easily taken in.
Albus finally stood up from the table along with the group of older
Slytherins that always seemed to accompany him. James shoved his plate
away and stood as well, meaning to head Albus off near the door. He
wanted to warn him about Tabitha's broom, but that wasn't all he meant to
say. Albus was accepting this whole Slytherin assignment too easily, and
James couldn't help feeling it was a betrayal of his family. He firmed his
jaw as he turned to catch up to the departing Slytherins near the door.
"James," a voice rang out. James glanced back and stopped. Tabitha
Corsica was approaching him from behind, smiling pleasantly. She had

apparently broken away from Albus' constant entourage. James merely
looked at her.
"I'm glad to see that you still feel comfortable dining at the Slytherin
table," Tabitha said, affecting a warm smile. "I know there was some…
unpleasantness last year. I am glad to see that it hasn't strained interhouse
relations."
James shook his head, his anger rising. "Just stuff it, Corsica. There are
no 'inter-house relations'. Just because Ralph is my friend, it doesn't mean
I'm all smiles about what you and your lot stand for. I haven't forgotten the
debate."
"Nor have I forgotten that you attempted to steal my broomstick before
the tournament match last year," Tabitha said, batting her eyes coquettishly.
"But I've decided to let bygones be bygones. I'd have thought you might
feel a bit different, considering everything."
"Considering that Albus ended up going to the Slytherins just to spite
Scorpius?" James spat. "He doesn't know what he's doing. And you're
taking advantage of him."
Tabitha frowned slightly. "I'm sorry you feel that way, James. We
happen to think that Albus fits in with us very nicely. He tells me that you
witnessed his remarkable practice flight the other night, and I want you to
know that I am quite glad you did. There was no trickery there. Albus is
very talented. He will make a valuable addition to the Slytherin Quidditch
team. And since you mention Scorpius Malfoy, I would think that the fact
of his Sorting would prove to you precisely what I've been saying all
along."
James glanced toward the door. Albus was leaving without so much as
a look back. "What's Scorpius have to do with anything?" he asked.
"Well," Tabitha replied, arching her eyebrows, "Scorpius has either
broken from the tradition of his father, choosing courage and valor over
ambition, thus proving his worth as a Gryffindor. Or the Slytherins have

changed, no longer to be the house of greed and corruption, as was the case
in the day of Scorpius' father. Either way…," she smiled, waiting for James
to give her his full attention, "it is proof that the Sorting Hat knows its
business. Your brother is in Slytherin because that, James, is where he
belongs. I truly hope you will not feel the continued need to interfere with
that."
"He's my brother," James replied. "I'll interfere wherever I see fit."
"I'm not threatening you, James," Tabitha said, the smile going out of
her voice, "I'm doing you the favor of warning you. Your brother is special.
It may well be that we Slytherins are the only house that could recognize
that. Albus has a destiny. I tell you this as a friend: if anyone attempts to
stand in the way of that destiny, even you, they do so at their own risk."
James studied Tabitha's face. She seemed remarkably sincere, and yet
it was so hard to trust anything she said. "What do you think you know
about Al's destiny?"
Tabitha smiled a little again. "That's for him to tell if he chooses. But I
expect he hardly realizes it himself yet. My advice, James: watch and wait.
And enjoy your brother's success. It's what he would do for you."
With that, Tabitha turned, her robes sweeping delicately, and left the
Great Hall.

7. AMSERA CERTH
After dinner, James was accompanied by Ralph and Rose to the
Gryffindor common room. On the way, he told them about his conversation
with Tabitha and her unsettling proclamation of Albus' potential, but neither
of them seemed particularly impressed.
"That's the way she always talks," Ralph said dismissively. "Even
some of the Slytherins tend to view her as a bit of a drama queen."
"You mean anyone other than you and Trenton?" James asked, arching
an eyebrow.
"They do seem to sincerely like Albus," Rose commented, stepping
through the portrait hole. "Maybe it's all true. Maybe Albus is the boy of

destiny. Apparently, that kind of thing runs in the family, just like dark hair
and Quidditch skills."
"It's not funny," James said, but he couldn't help smiling a little.
"You should just come with me down to the Slytherin common room
one of these nights," Ralph suggested. "See for yourself how Albus gets
along with everybody. Honestly, he does seem to fit in pretty well. It'll put
your mind at ease."
The three made their way across the crowded common room, joining
Noah, Damien, and Sabrina on a pair of couches in a dark corner.
"We were just talking about you, James," Noah proclaimed, patting the
couch cushion next to him. James flung himself onto the couch, happy to be
among his friends.
"We've got an idea," Sabrina said wisely, tapping the side of her nose.
"Does it have anything to do with the Heracles window again?" Ralph
asked, grinning. "That was a big hit even with the Slytherins. Filch still
hasn't gotten it entirely back to rights. Heracles' face keeps reverting to
Malfoy's overnight."
"It's all in the wrist," Damien said proudly, flexing his hand.
"No, this is even better," Noah replied, leaning forward on the couch
and lowering his voice. "It's this Debellows disaster that's got everybody in
a lather. Seems that people don't so much mind a little physical training; I
mean the guy does have a point that battling the Dark Arts does sometimes
require a little actual fighting. But this whole no-spells thing for the
younger years is just over the top. And so it got us thinking…"
"This has happened before!" Sabrina said, smacking James on the
shoulder.
James glanced around at the Gremlins. "I'm missing something," he

admitted.
"Back in your dad's day," Damien replied, rolling his eyes. "The reign
of Umbridge the Terrible. Don't tell me we know more about your dad's
school exploits than you do."
"It wouldn't surprise me," James said, smiling crookedly. "It seems I
haven't read any of the right books."
Rose made an annoyed noise. "Umbridge was the D.A.D.A. teacher,"
she explained. "She refused to teach them any usable defensive techniques
because she was a Ministry tool, back when the Ministry was trying to
squash any and all rumors about the return of 'He Who Must Not be
Named'." She pronounced the euphemism with obvious sarcasm.
"I remember," James finally said, nodding. "But that's not what
Debellows is about."
Sabrina cut James off. "It amounts to the same thing. So your plan is to
solve it the same way."
"Oh no," James said, shaking his head. "No way. I'm not starting up
another Dumbledore's Army. I just got done telling Cameron Creevey the
other night that I'm not my father. I don't want people thinking I'm trying to
relive all of his old adventures."
"Not to fear," Noah said, throwing his arm around James' shoulders.
"No one will be thinking that. For one thing, we can't use that name."
"Agreed," Damien replied. "Too old-school. Maybe 'Merlin's Army'?"
Sabrina shook her head. "Too copycat. How about just the 'Real
D.A.D.A.'?"
"Too long and too commercial," Damien replied.
"Look," Noah interrupted, "the name doesn't matter. The point is, you

lot need to know this stuff. If you don't get it until you're as old and
excellent as we are, it'll be too little, too late. You need to take matters into
your own hands."
"But I can't teach any of it!" James exclaimed. "I barely know any of it
myself!"
"Then I guess you need to find someone to teach it to you," Noah
answered, shrugging.
"So why don't you three do it?" James shot back.
"Can't happen," Damien said matter-of-factly. "As great and inspiring
as we may seem, we aren't teachers. You ever hear of muscle memory? It
means that my hand knows how to cast an Expelliarmus spell, but my brain
doesn't keep track of it anymore. It'd be like trying to explain how to walk.
It's just second nature by now. No, you need a natural teacher; someone like
your dad, back with the original Dumbledore's Army."
James turned to Ralph and Rose. "Shouldn't you two be speaking up,
telling me what a ridiculous and irresponsible idea this is?"
"Actually," Rose said thoughtfully, "I think it makes a good bit of
sense. I mean, it's true that we really aren't learning anything useful in
Debellows' class. Especially the girls."
"And honestly," Ralph added, "I need all the help I can get with
defensive magic. That's one area I've never really gotten a handle on."
"I'll say," James grudgingly agreed. "But still, this could get us into a
load of trouble!"
"I don't see why," Rose reasoned. "There are lots of extracurricular
classes and clubs. It's not like in our parents' day when Umbridge forbade
anyone from practicing defensive spells. It could be a completely
sanctioned school club. All we'd have to do is get the Headmaster's
permission. You could ask, James. Merlin owes you one, after all."

James glanced at Rose. She shrugged.
"This leaves just one problem," Ralph commented. "Who will we get
to teach?"
"You'd need somebody with a good, basic grasp of the defensive arts,"
Sabrina said. "Someone who's a natural leader and teacher, with some
experience in actual battle."
An idea occurred to James. His eyes widened, and then he slumped
slowly in his seat.
"What?" Rose asked, frowning.
"I think I just thought of the perfect teacher," James replied dolefully.
Ralph said, "So why is that a problem?"
"Because," James grinned crookedly, "I don't think he'll ever agree to
do it."
Rose narrowed her eyes. After a moment, she smiled knowingly.
"Who?" Noah asked.
"Can't tell," James answered. "But if we can talk him into it, I'll let you
know."
The Gremlins seemed a bit annoyed at James' secrecy but were
generally content that their idea had been adopted. After a while, the group
broke up, leaving only James, Ralph, and Rose in the dark corner.
"Do you think Cedric would ever do it?" Rose asked earnestly, keeping
her voice low.
"Oh!" Ralph exclaimed, smacking his forehead. "I knew I should've

known who you two were talking about."
"All we can do is ask him," James answered. "People say he had
natural leadership skills. He was good enough to get into the Triwizard
Tournament, and he made it through all the challenges, so he has plenty of
experience."
"And from his perspective, it's all still fresh," Rose agreed.
Ralph asked, "But where can we find him? Last year, he just seemed to
show up when he wanted to. We still don't really know where he hangs
out."
James looked hard at Ralph, thinking. "Actually, I might have an idea
about that."
"We should ask the Headmaster first," Rose said. "That way, we don't
bother Cedric with it unless it's for sure. Let's all go together; tomorrow,
after lunch. That'll give us a chance to figure out the best way to present the
idea."
James nodded. "Sounds all right, I suppose."
"You don't think it's a good idea?" Rose asked, putting her head on one
side.
"No, I guess it's a good idea," James admitted. "I just hate the idea of
looking like I'm trying too hard. You know, doing everything like my dad
did. Like I told Cameron, I'm not the one with the lightning bolt scar on my
forehead."
Rose studied James. "Then why do you keep rubbing it?"
James dropped his hand, suddenly realizing that he was indeed
touching his forehead. "What do you mean?"
"You've been rubbing at your forehead for the last few days," Rose

replied. "You look like an advertisement for Haberdasher's Anti-Headache
Headwear."
"It's true," Ralph added, nodding. "Maybe you should wear your
glasses more if not wearing them is making your head hurt."
James was somewhat annoyed. "It's not my bloody glasses. I don't
know what it is. I've just got an itch, that's all."
"You've got a constant itch on your forehead?" Ralph blinked.
"It's not 'constant'," James said. He glanced at Ralph and Rose. "Is it?"
Rose looked a bit concerned. "Maybe you should go see Madam Curio
down in the hospital wing, James."
"That's the last thing I need," James said, chuckling. "It's nothing,
really. I'd barely even noticed it. It does seem a little weird though."
"You've just been thinking about it all too much," Rose said
reasonably. "No one is expecting you to be your father. Don't obsess over
it."
James agreed, and he hoped Rose was right. As he said goodnight and
climbed the stairs, he wondered about the phantom itch on his forehead. He
really hadn't given it any thought until now, but it was a just a little bit
strange, wasn't it, having a persistent itch in the place of his father's famous
scar? No way would he be asking Madam Curio about it. It was bad
enough, what with Cameron Creevey expecting him to shoot fireworks out
of his bum on one hand, and Scorpius Malfoy accusing him of delusions of
grandeur on the other. The last thing he needed was for a rumor to get
started that James Potter was scratching at a phantom lightning bolt scar.
Especially on top of the fact that he very well might be starting a club
reminiscent of his dad's Dumbledore's Army.
As James was getting ready for bed, it occurred to him that, had he not
had the conversation with Tabitha Corsica and gone away feeling worried

and peeved, he might not have agreed so easily to the creation of the new
D.A.D.A. club after all. Her words had left him feeling small and
ridiculous, but the idea of starting a new Defence Club gave him a feeling
of importance again. Was that reason enough to go through with it? He
hoped it was a good idea, but really, he wasn't overly concerned about it.
There were still two hurdles that needed to be overcome for the club to
happen. The first was to get Merlin's approval, the second was to find
Cedric and ask him to teach it. If either refused, then the club would never
be. That seemed like good enough odds to James. Thinking that, he closed
his eyes and drifted to sleep.

A grey, humid afternoon greeted James, Rose, and Ralph as they
finished their Saturday lunch and headed out to wander the school grounds.
It was one of those strange days at the beginning of autumn when it is too
muggy to wear a jacket but too wet and breezy to go without. Rose huddled
in a heavy jumper as James and Ralph threw rocks into the lake, admiring
the splashes.
"I think we should just ask him straight up," Ralph said, heaving a
stone sidearm. "Like you said last night, Rose, there's no reason for him to
say no."
"That's what I thought then," Rose replied. "But that was last night."
James glanced back at her. "A lot's changed since then, has it?"
"I stayed up late last night, reading," Rose said. "I wanted to get a head
start on some of the books our Wizlit textbook suggested, like I told you in
the library."

"You sure don't waste time," Ralph commented.
"I happen to like reading. Besides, not surprisingly, our Headmaster
shows up occasionally in some of those books and I thought it'd be worth
checking into his history a bit more before we talked to him."
Ralph lowered his throwing arm and looked up at the sky, squinting.
"It's so weird. I was there when it happened, but I keep forgetting our
Headmaster is the famous Merlin from all the old legends and myths. It's a
little hard to wrap your mind around, isn't it?"
"I told you a lot of people find it a bit unsettling that Merlinus
Ambrosius is Headmaster of Hogwarts," Rose said meaningfully. "And I
found out why, a little bit. There's loads of stories about him in the old
books of the kings. It's almost impossible to figure out what's made-up and
what might be real, but even if only a tiny bit of it is true, it's pretty
worrying."
"Like what?" James asked, prying a large rock out of the bank of the
lake.
"Like kings used to hire him to curse armies. Not bad armies,
necessarily; just any army that any king with enough treasure happened to
dislike. More than once, when Merlin got to the army he was paid to curse,
they would send out people to pay him more to go back and curse the king
that'd originally hired him. And he did!"
"Sounds pretty practical, if you ask me," Ralph said, heaving a stone
with both hands. It splashed nearby, wetting both James' and Ralph's shoes.
"This isn't funny, Ralph," Rose admonished. "He was a magical
mercenary. A man like that wouldn't have any loyalty at all! Some of those
armies he cursed… they got completely slaughtered, sometimes even before
they got to the battle! There'd be floods, cyclones, even earthquakes where
the ground would open up right beneath the army camp, swallowing them
all whole."

"That can't be true," James commented. "I mean, Merlin's powerful,
but nobody can do that."
"You're forgetting where Merlin gets his magic from," Rose replied as
if she'd been prepared for such an argument. "According to the legends,
Merlin can tap into the power of nature. We saw him doing that the night he
took us to get his stuff. Nature is huge, and it was even huger back then,
with less civilization. Who knows what a wizard like that would be able to
do?"
Ralph brushed his hands off on his jeans. "I don't think 'huger' is a
word."
"Don't you start correcting me," Rose said, looking back and forth
between James and Ralph. "Why are neither of you taking this seriously?"
"Because like I said, we were there, Rose," Ralph replied. "We saw the
man Reapparate from the Dark Ages. We worked with him in the days after.
He helped us get rid of that Muggle reporter, who was going to blow the lid
off the whole magical world. He was completely brilliant about it. He may
have been a loose cannon in the past, but he's different now, isn't he? He's
trying to be good, and he seems to be doing pretty well with it."
"Well," Rose said, "it isn't just that he was a loose cannon."
James plopped down on the grass next to her. "What? Did he put
ketchup on his eggs? Did he draw mustaches on portraits?"
Rose looked at him, and then looked away. "According to some of the
legends, he was supposed to be the bearer of an awful curse. His returning
was to be an omen of the end of the world."
James felt a twinge of worry at that, but kept his voice even. "This is
the part where it's hard to separate the fact from the loony made-up stuff,
right?"

"Laugh if you want," Rose said, "but the prophecy shows up in a lot of
places. Some call him the Harbinger of Doom. Other places just call him
the Ambassador; of what, it never says. It gets pretty creepy," she admitted,
shuddering. "Especially when you are reading it in the middle of the night."
"So far, he's just been the Ambassador of an extra ten points for
Gryffindor and Slytherin because we helped him go get some magic box,"
Ralph said, shrugging. "Come on, it's almost two. He'll be expecting us."
"You coming, James?" Rose asked, climbing to her feet.
James glanced up. "What? Oh. Yeah, sure."
The three plodded through the foggy afternoon, heading for the
courtyard. In the distance, thunder rumbled like a veiled threat and the wind
began to switch. James was thinking rather nervously of the skeleton in the
cave, Farrigan, the long lost associate of Merlin, and of Cousin Lucy's letter
about the Gatekeeper. In the light of those things, Rose's tale of the
legendary curse of Merlin sounded uncomfortably familar. James couldn't
remember it exactly, but the skeleton had said something about a gate, and
about things coming through, all because of Merlin's return. The Borleys
had come through, at the very least. Merlin acknowledged that. But he
claimed to have captured all of them except for the last one, the one that
had followed James from that night at the Grotto Keep. Merlin said he'd
trapped them all in his mysterious Darkbag. But the skeleton had warned of
something else, something worse. Like the legends, it had also called
Merlin the Ambassador, but Farrigan had identified the thing Merlin was
supposedly representing: the Guardian, the Sentinel of Worlds, the
Gatekeeper. Lucy's letter had corroborated those legends, and now Rose's
studies were confirming them as well. James shuddered as he followed
Rose and Ralph into the castle.
They threaded their way through the weekend-empty corridors,
passing darkened classrooms and halls. Finally, they reached the gargoyle
which guarded the entrance to the spiral steps.

"You remember the password, Rose?" Ralph asked. "I couldn't even
pronounce it, and you know how they are about writing things like that
down."
Rose screwed up her face, thinking. Finally, she carefully pronounced,
"In ois oisou."
The gargoyle moved with the sound of millstones grinding. It stepped
aside, revealing the doorway.
"What's it mean?" James asked as he hopped onto the rising staircase.
Rose shook her head. "It's more of that ancient Welsh, I'd guess. Who
knows what it means?"
They arrived in the hall outside the Headmaster's office and James
reached to bang the door knocker.
"Wait," Rose said, grabbing James' arm. "Remember this morning? He
told us to wait outside. He said he had another appointment before us."
James remembered. He carefully lowered the knocker and the three
settled onto a long bench situated across from the Headmaster's door.
On the wall next to the door, amongst an arrangement of old paintings
and portraits, was a face James recognized.
"Look," James nudged Ralph, pointing. "I remember him. Old
Stonewall used him in Technomancy last year to teach us about magical
portraits."
The portrait of Cornelius Yarrow, former Hogwarts bursar, peered at
James over his spectacles. "I remember you too, young man. You had a
rather unseemly number of questions regarding the subject. I hope you were
satisfied."

"I was," James answered. "I especially liked the part about how only
the original artist can destroy a magical portrait. It was really wicked when
Stonewall melted his painting of that horrid clown."
"Your Professor Jackson did leave out one small detail," Yarrow
sniffed, chafing at the memory. "There is one other person who can destroy
a portrait, although it has never been known to happen."
"Seems like a pretty important detail to leave out," James frowned
doubtfully. "Frankly, with all due respect, I'd trust him rather more on the
subject than—"
Two things happened simultaneously, interrupting James. The door to
the Headmaster's office unlatched and swung open and a stab of pain shot
through James' forehead. He clapped a hand to his head and squeezed his
eyes shut, hissing in surprise.
"James?" Rose asked, concerned.
Almost as quickly as it had come, the pain vanished. James kept his
hand to his forehead but risked opening his eyes. The first thing he saw was
the view through the Headmaster's open doorway. Merlin was standing
behind his desk, his face grave and his eyes piercing. He was staring very
hard at James through the doorway, but the look on his face did not seem
worried or alarmed. If anything, he looked intently watchful, perhaps even
wary.
"Are you all right, James?" another voice asked. James lowered his
hand and looked around. Petra Morganstern was standing in the hall, having
just exited the Headmaster's office. She looked flushed, and her eyes were
red, as if she'd been crying.
"I'm fine," James answered. "I… I should be wearing my glasses." He
glanced at Rose and Ralph, warning them not to say anything.
"Oh," Petra said, looking away. "Well, I'll see you later. I've got…

things to do."
James watched her walk away, wondering once again why Petra
seemed so melancholy all of a sudden. And what in the world had Merlin
said to her to upset her even more? James stood, looking back into the
Headmaster's office again. Merlin was no longer staring at him with that
hard, watchful look. He was turned to the side, studying a complicated brass
device in his hands.
"Come in, my friends," Merlin called without looking.
As the three students entered the office, James couldn't help looking
around in awe. Save for the old headmasters' portraits and the desk, the
room was virtually unrecognizable as the same space McGonagall had
occupied last term. A massive stuffed crocodile hung from the ceiling,
looking like an exhibit in a museum. Bookshelves crowded the floor,
crammed with enormous volumes in thick, leather covers. Alongside these
were arcane tools and fixtures, none smaller than a cabinet, and all mindbogglingly complex. Attached to the wall behind Merlin's desk was a glass
case housing a thick black sack, hung on silver hooks. James recognized it
as the mysterious Darkbag. The centerpiece of the room, however, was a
very large, long mirror with a rectangular golden frame. The silvered glass
of the mirror only half-reflected the room. Beyond the reflection, a swirling,
leaden mist rolled and shifted. It was both beautiful and vaguely sickening.
The mirror rested on a long brass easel in the center of the room, facing the
Headmaster's desk.
"As promised," the Headmaster said, "the contents of my cache. Not
all of it, of course, but enough to make my job rather easier."
There was only one chair facing the Headmaster's desk. James, Ralph,
and Rose gathered around it, though none chose to sit on it. They continued
to look around the room in awe.
"You've noticed my Mirror, Mr. Potter," Merlin said conversationally,
still not looking up from the strange device he was holding. "Very curious,
yes? I see that you wish to ask me about it. Please feel free."

"What does it do?" James replied bluntly.
"The real question, Mr. Potter, is what doesn't it do?" Merlin said,
finally setting the strange brass device on his desk and looking up. "It is the
legendary Amsera Certh, the quintessential Magic Mirror of time
immemorial. With the help of its Focusing Book, it can show you the past
and the future. It can show you places you have been and replay ancient
memories. It can even tell you, if you so wish, who is the fairest in the land.
I fail to see the practical purpose of such information, but the Mirror's
designer was a bit of an eccentric."
Merlin stood and moved slowly around his desk, approaching the
Mirror. "Only two such mirrors were ever made. The sister of this one
belonged to an associate of mine who, like all of my associates, is long
since dead. That mirror, alas, is also lost to the mists of time."
Rose stared at the swirling, silvery mist in the Mirror. "Why were there
only two ever made?"
Merlin reached the Mirror and pulled a braided cord. A thick black
curtain dropped over the face of the Mirror. "Such pieces are very difficult
to create, Miss Weasley. More importantly, the world can only contain so
many very powerful magical devices. They weigh heavily on the balance of
the cosmos. Too many at any given time can cause… wrinkles. Before my
return, I lived at the tail of a much darker time when such wrinkles were
commonplace. Fortunately, the age we now occupy is much better adjusted.
Still, a few relics of the age of extraordinary magical devices remain."
Merlin looked about with some pride. "Most of them are here in this very
room."
Ralph swallowed and said, "Is it all, you know, safe?"
"Of course not, Mr. Deedle," Merlin replied easily, returning to his
desk. "Any more than a wand is safe. But it is contained, and that is the
important thing."

"Did you show Petra something in that mirror?" James asked suddenly,
looking at the Headmaster's face.
Merlin didn't flinch. "I would say that is none of your concern, Mr.
Potter, but I have lived in this age long enough to know that that would only
heighten your curiosity. Yes, I did."
"Is that why she was so upset when she left? What'd you show her?"
"I showed her what she came asking to see," Merlin replied evenly,
seating himself. "Nothing more and nothing less. If you wish to know
further, you may consult Miss Morganstern directly, although she might
find such an interrogation less than welcome. Now, what can I do for the
three of you?" As he spoke, he reached across his desk and carefully closed
a large book near the edge; the Mirror's 'Focusing Book', James assumed.
Rose maneuvered herself slightly in front of James. "We, uh, just came
to ask about starting a club, Headmaster."
"What manner of club?" Merlin asked briskly.
"Well, a, er, practice… club," Rose stammered. "I mean, a club for
practicing. Spells. Defensive techniques and things like that."
Ralph interrupted. "It's not that we don't like Professor Debellows or
anything, either. He's really great. We just want to… practice."
"I understand that the good professor doesn't prefer to be called a
professor," Merlin said, allowing a tiny smile.
"Er, that's true," Ralph agreed, his face reddening. "Kendrick, then."
"What sort of spells do you intend to practice? And who do you expect
to be involved?"
"Anyone who wants to be involved," James answered. "And we'll just

be practicing basic defensive techniques. Stuff we learned in our classes last
year. We'll only be practicing on dummies and targets, never each other.
Any teachers who want to supervise can come, of course. Although I expect
that it'd be a little… er, boring."
James stopped, feeling that that last bit might have been too much. He
was counting on the fact that no teacher would wish to volunteer for any
extra time in class just to watch a bunch of students fling Expelliarmus
spells at wooden dummies, but Merlin was quick enough to see through
such a ruse. Knowing him, he might just assign a rotation of teacher
chaperones, and Debellows would probably be first on the list.
Merlin opened his mouth to respond when, suddenly, the brass device
on his desk shifted. Everyone in the room looked down at it. It was
something like a hollow globe made of interconnected brass hoops, marking
the globe's latitudes and longitudes. Inside, a complicated network of gears
and ratchets operated a silver pointer. The pointer had begun to spin,
making the globe roll slightly on the desk. After a moment, the pointer
ceased spinning, ratcheted upwards a few notches, and went silent. Merlin
stared at it.
"What is—" Ralph began, but Merlin interrupted him.
"You may proceed with your club, my young friends. Please send me a
notification of when and where you plan to meet as well as a list of students
who choose to be involved. After all, what kind of Headmaster would I be
if I didn't keep abreast of such things?" Merlin had produced an official
parchment with the Hogwarts crest emblazoned on the top. He scribbled a
few notes on it and signed his name at the bottom with a flourish. "This
should suffice in terms of official sanction. I wish you the best of success."
Ralph glanced at James, wide-eyed and smiling in relief.
"But Headmaster—" Rose began.
"If you will excuse me," Merlin said, rising, "it happens that I have
some unexpected business to attend to. I'd hate to detain you, as I expect

that you have preparations to make. Please do see yourselves to the
staircase, and close the door on your way out, thank you."
"Thank you, sir," Ralph said, herding James and Rose toward the door.
"You won't regret it!"
"Ralph!" Rose hissed.
The three nearly stumbled over each other as they crowded through the
doorway.
"'You won't regret it'?" Rose whispered at Ralph, rounding on him in
the hallway. "What kind of thing is that to say? You want him to be
suspicious?"
Ralph grimaced. "I was nervous! So sue me! Come on, let's just get out
of here before he changes his mind."
James was just pulling the door shut when he stopped suddenly, his
eyes going wide. "The permission parchment!" he exclaimed, looking from
Ralph to Rose. "Did either of you pick it up?"
"I didn't get it," Ralph said. "I thought Rose got it. She was closest."
"You shoved us out of there before I could get to it, you giant prat!"
"I'll get it," James said, turning back. The door hadn't yet latched shut.
He pushed it slightly open, peering in.
"Headmaster?" he called. "We forgot the parchment you signed for us.
Can I just…"
James frowned and pushed the door further open. The Headmaster's
desk was vacant. The room appeared to be completely empty and was
almost unnaturally still. Perhaps Merlin had gone somewhere by Floo
Network. The brass device on his desk must have been an alarm or a
reminder, telling him of a meeting he had to rush off to. James walked

across the office and grabbed the parchment from the Headmaster's desk.
As he turned back toward the door, a strange feeling came over him. With a
sudden chill, he remembered the dart of pain that had shot through his
forehead when he'd been waiting in the hall, right before he'd seen Merlin
staring at him through the door. His heart quickening, James looked around
and saw why the office seemed so unnaturally still. Across the rear wall of
the office, from floor to ceiling, were the dozens of portraits of the former
headmasters. Among them, of course, were the portraits of Severus Snape
and Albus Dumbledore, although as usual, Dumbledore's portrait was
empty. Every portrait was perfectly still and silent.
Ralph and Rose had edged into the room, following James. Rose was
staring at the portraits, her eyes wide and nervous.
"Now that's just eerie," she said in a low voice.
"This is the only place on earth where a wall full of unmoving
paintings is a bad omen," Ralph said. "But I am in total agreement with you,
Rose. What's going on here? Where's Merlin?"
James crossed the room and stood in front of the portrait of Severus
Snape. He had spoken to this portrait several times last term, and had been
insulted by it on more than one occasion. Gingerly, he reached out and
touched the portrait's face. He could feel the texture of the dried paint, feel
the stroke that formed the man's hook nose. The face didn't so much as
blink.
Rose gasped. "Look," she said, her voice barely above a whisper.
James turned. The black curtain had once again been lifted from the
Amsera Certh, but the surface of the Magic Mirror no longer showed
merely swirling, leaden smoke. It showed a scene. The view was hazy and
murky, as if seen through a very dirty, very imperfect window. James and
Ralph joined Rose by the Mirror and peered past their reflections, trying to
make sense of the cloudy scene.
The view looked through a stand of gnarled trees into a thick forest. It

was very foggy, and the trees were dense enough to block most of the
stormy daylight. There was a small clearing beyond the nearer trees, and in
the center of the clearing was a sort of monument, caked with moss and
vines. It was tall, thin, and leaning. As the scene moved in and out of
murkiness, James could see that the monument was a statue of a man. The
stone figure was rather handsome, dressed in a very old-fashioned suit. On
the base of the statue were lines of engraving, but James couldn't make
them out.
Rose suddenly covered her mouth, stifling a gasp. "I know what that
place is!" she whispered. "But why would the Mirror be showing this?"
James had a terrible feeling he also knew the place. He'd heard about it
but never seen it. Very few people ever had. On the base of the statue, just
below the unreadable words, three large letters were engraved: T. M. R.
"T. M. R.," Ralph said wonderingly, then gasped. "Tom Marvolo
Riddle! Is it really Voldemort's grave? Who'd bury a monster like him?"
"Nobody knows," Rose said quickly, still studying the ghostly scene.
"There was an anonymous donation for the burial costs and the monument,
specifying that he was to be buried as Tom Riddle and not Voldemort. No
wizarding cemeteries would accept the remains, though. They finally buried
him in a secret location in an unplottable forest. Hardly anyone even knows
where it is."
In the Mirror, a figure moved. The three students gasped in unison.
The figure hadn't walked into the scene, nor had it appeared. It was as if it
had been there all along, but no one had noticed it. Only when it moved
slightly was its presence made known. It wore a long, black, hooded robe
which obscured its face, but there was something very unsettling about the
fabric of the robe. It looked more like a robe-shaped hole in space, filled
with swirling, churning dark smoke. The ragged bottom of the robe did not
quite reach ground, and yet no feet came out of it. James shuddered at the
sight of the awful figure, thinking of the tabloid clipping Lucy had sent him.
It had referred to the 'creature of smoke and ash'. Could this be that entity?
Could this be the Gatekeeper? The figure raised an arm, revealing one thin,

white hand. The hand seemed to beckon. A moment later, the statue of the
youthful Voldemort shuddered. The proud expression went out of its face
and the arms dangled like a puppet with its strings cut. And then, distantly,
a voice spoke. It came out of the Mirror very faintly, barely heard over the
sound of the wind and the creaking trees.
"Are you he whose echo has called to me?" the voice of the hooded
entity asked. "He whose motives, more than anyone else's in this sphere,
once aligned with mine? Reveal yourself."
The statue spoke, and its voice was very high and misty, nearly lost. "I
am Tom Marvolo Riddle, also known as Lord Voldemort, dead of this world
these many years, reclaimed to dust, passed on to the realm of torment."
"And yet," the robed entity said, "your imprint is strong enough to
draw me. Your mortal remains are of no use to me; therefore, it must be
your intention to tell me who bested you, that I may seek him for my
purposes."
"He who bested me is no friend to you," the statue stated blandly, its
voice nearly lost in the rising wind of that far-off place. "He was a boy then,
but even then, he was stronger than could be deceived by your kind. He
shall not assist you. But there are others…"
The vision in the glass was growing fainter. James reached out to touch
the Mirror, to lean on it, but Rose stopped him.
"Even now, they await you," the dead voice of Tom Riddle said. "It is
as you say: I am merely an echo, a memory, a fading ripple of a life gone.
But they can bring you to another… one in whose heart beats my own
essence. They are prepared for you… they await you here, this very
night…"
At that, another figure pushed through the branches, moving out of the
shadows of the trees. James couldn't make out the figure's face, but he could
tell it was a man. Like the first figure, he was dressed in a hooded robe, but
because of the man's position, James could see his face. He was pale and

wary, but his eyes were resolute. The trees had begun to pitch and groan as
the wind increased. The sounds of the place began to drown out the distant
voices. James could barely make out the words of the pale man.
"We are prepared for you, o Master of the Void," he said, holding out
his hand. "We have been awaiting you, as has been the whole world. Your
time is near."
Suddenly, a third figure moved out of the woods, opposite the pale
man. This figure was also dressed in black but was taller than the pale man.
He didn't clamber out of the woods, as had the pale man, but moved with a
sort of malevolent grace, stepping out into the clearing to face the shrouded
form of the Gatekeeper. James was dismayed. Something about the proud,
effortless gait of the taller figure made him think of Merlin. The pale man
did not seem surprised to see the third figure, although his wariness
increased. He smiled thinly. The tall man and the Gatekeeper exchanged
words, but a crack of thunder drowned them out. The wind grew to a steady
howl, bearing the promise of a storm. Fat drops of rain began to fall, and
the image started to blur. Suddenly, the pale man glanced around and then
pointed, up and out, and James gasped. He'd pointed directly at James, as if
seeing him through the Mirror glass. The man's pale face stared right into
his eyes. The taller man turned as well, but if it was Merlin, James couldn't
tell because of the shadow of his hood. Worst of all, the face of the statue
had also turned. The stone representation of Tom Marvolo Riddle looked
out of the Mirror at James, grinning an empty, carved grin, showing all its
teeth.
James stumbled backwards, away from the Mirror, and bumped into
the desk. He barely heard Ralph and Rose calling him, grabbing him, trying
to pull him toward the door.
"Come on!" Rose called frantically. "We have to get out of here! They
saw us! And it looks like they're coming! They're coming!"
James' eyes widened. Suddenly he turned, looking down at the desk
behind him. The Focusing Book was open. There was only one notation on
the page, written in Merlin's own hand: 'GRAVE OF THE SOUGHT

HOST'. Without thinking, James used both hands to slam the book shut.
Instantly, thunder boomed right outside the office window. Lightning
flickered and a gust of cold wind roared into the room, lifting the curtains.
"Potter!" a voice rang out stridently. James spun on his heels. The
portraits were all alive again. Most of them were looking around and
blinking. Parchments swirled into the air as wind shifted wildly through the
room, whickering through the curtains. The portrait of Snape glared at
James, its eyes wide and very black. "What do you think you're doing? This
is old magic! Magic like you have never imagined! You must leave this
place. Now! Quickly!"
Ralph grabbed James and pulled, dragging him toward the door, which
swung wide open of its own accord.
"Come on!" Rose called, running through the doorway and looking
back. The door began to close again, cutting her off. James lunged,
following Ralph. Snape's face was tense, dreadful, as James ran past,
slipping through the doorway a moment before the heavy door slammed
shut with a reverberating crash.
James and Ralph barreled into Rose, and all three collapsed onto the
bench in the hall, hearts pounding and breathless. As one, they scrambled
back up and ran toward the spiral staircase, clambered down to the corridor
below. They kept running until they reached a wide balcony where they
finally pounded to a clumsy halt, breathing hard and staring wild-eyed at
each other.
"I hope," Ralph wheezed, bending over with his hands on his knees,
"that one of us… at least remembered… the parchment this time."

After a night of squalls and thunderstorms, Sunday morning dawned
like a blooming flower, kindling rose-colored sparkles in the drenched grass
and trees. After breakfast, James, Ralph, and Rose picked their way across
the wet lawns to Hagrid's hut, where they banged on the door. When the
half-giant didn't answer, the three students followed the stone path around
to the back. There, they found Hagrid and his bullmastiff, Trife, moving
about in the curling vines and broad leaves of the pumpkin patch. Hagrid
was humming cheerfully, wet up to his knees as he rolled and weeded his
pumpkins.
"Good mornin', yeh lot! Fancy seein' the three of yeh out an' about this
early on a weekend!"
"Good morning, Hagrid," Rose said, sweeping beads of water off the
top of one of the huge pumpkins. Satisfied it was mostly dry, she sat on it.
"We came out to talk to you about something."
"Blimey," Hagrid replied, "with yeh here, young Rose, it really is just
like old times. Come now, let's go on inside. I was just tellin' Trife here that
we ought to brew a mornin' tea, I was. We can talk all we want by the
stove."
They made their way inside and Hagrid hung an enormous copper
teapot on a hook over the fire. James, Rose, and Ralph clambered onto the
oversized chairs around the table.
"Hagrid," Ralph began, glancing at Rose, "we saw something when we
were up in the Headmaster's office yesterday. Rose thinks maybe we should
tell someone about it because it could mean trouble."
James kicked the table leg idly and glared out the window. "Not
everybody agrees with Rose, mind you."
"How can you say what we saw wasn't cause for alarm, James?" Rose
demanded. "Even Ralph agrees that—"

"I'm not saying that it isn't cause for alarm," James interrupted, glaring
back at Rose. "I just don't think it means the Headmaster is in on it like you
keep wanting to believe."
"I don't want to believe it, but there's such a thing as evidence. There's
seeing a man in the Mirror who looks and moves suspiciously like the
Headmaster. You said so yourself! And he was consorting with… with
known enemies and outright scary people. And at least one of them I don't
think was even human! Not to mention the statue of You-Know-Who!"
"Whoa, now, wait just a minute, yeh three," Hagrid said, scowling and
settling himself into his old easy chair. "I don't know what yeh saw, but let's
not be dragging that old beastie out in the open. Yeh just tell me what
happened, why don'yeh."
Rose began to explain what had happened the day before, beginning
with their interview with the Headmaster. As the story progressed, James
and Ralph joined in, adding their own insights and corrections, so that by
the time they were explaining how the portraits came back to life and the
painting of Snape warned them to flee, all three of them were talking at
once. Finally, they finished the account and fell silent, turning to view
Hagrid's response.
The half-giant sat in his huge old chair by the fire, a distant, tense look
on his face. He was looking in the direction of the three students but not
directly at any of them. James had been confident that Hagrid would simply
dismiss the tale as wild exaggeration. He'd tell them that what they'd seen in
the Mirror had just been small-time shenanigans, engaged by men who
refused to accept the fact that they'd long since lost the war. James knew
from his father that while Hagrid may not always love the leaders of
Hogwarts, he was loyal to the core. He'd defend Merlin, and assure them
that there was absolutely nothing to worry about. That was partly why
James had suggested they come out to the hut to talk to the big man. Now,
as Hagrid sat in silence with that strange, tense look on his face, James
wondered if it had been such a good idea after all.

Suddenly, the teapot began to shriek, causing everyone in the room to
jump. Hagrid shook himself, and then reached to pull it from the hook. He
carried it to the table and clanked it onto a trivet.
"Er," James said, prodding, "what do you think, Hagrid?"
Hagrid glanced at him, wiping his hands on a huge towel. "Well, it's a
bit difficult, innit? Who's to say? Could've been anythin', I s'pose. The
Headmaster, he's got some terrible powerful devices an' all. Ol' Professor
Snape's portrait was pro'lly right tellin' yeh to stay well away."
"But Rose is saying she thinks it was Merlin that showed up by
Voldemort's grave," James clarified, gesturing at his cousin. "Tell her she's
daft if she thinks that! I mean, he's the Headmaster, Hagrid!"
China clattered as Hagrid gathered saucers and cups, returning to the
table with his arms full. "Right yeh are, James. He is the Headmaster, an' all
I can say's if he did show up in that Mirror, talkin' to whoever it was yeh
saw, then he musta had plenty good reason to."
"But it couldn't have been him!" James insisted, looking to Ralph for
support. "I mean, the thing in the swirling robe was obviously ten kinds of
evil, and that bloke that showed up first had to have been an old Death
Eater. I mean, it was Voldemort's ruddy grave site!"
"I'd appreciate it if yeh didn't say that name at my table, James,"
Hagrid said gently, setting a cup and saucer in front of him. His hands
trembled slightly. "I know the battle's long over, but old habits die hard, yeh
unnerstand."
Rose stirred in her seat. "Hagrid, do you think it could've been Merlin
we saw?"
Hagrid poured steaming water into the cups before he answered.
Finally, he settled himself onto one of the chairs, producing a strained

creak. He looked hard at Rose, and then stirred his tea with surprising
delicacy.
"They say that the Headmaster's a good man with a garden," Hagrid
said, as if changing the subject. "I don't do a whole lot of readin' myself o'
course, but everyone knows that Merlin the Great was a keen one for nature
and plants and such. I been hearin' stories about how he spoke to the birds
an' the trees since I was a wee lad. So when he came on as Headmaster
early this summer, I thought I'd go up an' make my acquaintance. I invited
him to come down to the hut so I could show 'im my own little garden.
Next day, sure enough, he takes me up on the offer. He traipses all over the
garden, not sayin' the slightest thing. He just walks up and down, in and out,
tapping that big staff o' his on my pumpkins and squashes and cabbages.
Finally, he looks up, out toward the Forest. I looks too, 'cause there's
something rising up out of the trees."
Hagrid still had the teaspoon in his huge hand. Gently, he set it next to
his saucer. He looked at James, Ralph, and Rose one by one. "It was a
Djinn. Like a raven, but bigger; black as night with glowing red eyes I
could see from where I stood. I'd never actually seen one before, but I knew
of 'em. Dark and mysterious creatures, they are; portents, according to
legend. Very reclusive. I'd always been told they only come out at night,
and if yeh see one on your path, it's a sure sign to turn right back 'round and
run home, for the Djinn is s'posed to be a warning of horrible danger for
those yeh love. Well, when I saw that black creature rise up out of the trees,
I was about to call out to the Headmaster. But I knew he'd already seen it,
an' he didn't seem any too worried about it. So I just watched. That black
bird flew right over, wheeling once above the garden an' coming to land
right on top of one of my pumpkins, right there next to the Headmaster. An'
Merlin, he just watches it the whole time. The strangest thing was the way
the two of 'em looked at each other. They didn't make any sounds, but it
seemed to me plain as day that they was talking to each other somehow.
After 'bout a minute, that Djinn looks over at me in that funny way that
birds do, with their heads turned aside so one eye is pointing right at yeh.
That bright red eye stared me right down, an' it was all I could do not to
heave a rock at it like I was a scared kid."

Hagrid looked imploringly at the three students at his table. "I loves
magical creatures," he declared. "Dragons to Skrewts. Yeh lot know that
s'well as anyone! I teach Care of Magical Creatures, fer goodness sakes.
But that's the way that 'orrible bird made me feel. That glowing red eye just
looked at me, an' all I wanted was to put it out, make it so that it'd never
look at anyone else ever again. It sent chills down me. Still does."
Hagrid stopped and finally took a sip of his tea. He cleared his throat
and went on. "Finally, the thing took to flight again, flapping its great,
greasy black wings. It flew back to the Forest and disappeared. The
Headmaster watched it go, an' then he walked back over to me, still tapping
his staff on the ground. He gets next to me an' turns back to the pumpkin
patch, looking out over at the west corner. 'You've been having a dead spell
in that corner,' he says to me. Well, it's true an' no denyin'. That west corner
hasn't raised more'n thorns and thistle for five, six years. 'So I have,' I says
to 'im. He looks me in the eye an' says, 'There's a fox who died with all her
young, buried in her den under that corner of your garden, Mr. Hagrid. The
dead spell arises from their bones, crying for a morning that'll never come.
Dig them up, rebury them in the Forest, and sprinkle the earth with
Sorrowshot powder. Professor Heretofore can provide some, with my
compliments. That will end your trouble.'"
Rose's mouth was turned down in a grimace of dismay. "Did you do it,
Hagrid?"
Hagrid glanced up at her, raising his eyebrows. "Well, o' course I did!
Found them bones and no mistake! Did just as the Headmaster said, right
down to the Sorrowshot powder. An' you can see plain as day that it did the
trick. That corner has my biggest Fiendscorn squash in it. A fine green
Tigerstripe variety. You've seen it, o' course. But the point is…"
Hagrid stopped again and fiddled nervously with his teacup and saucer.
He took another quick sip, as if to silence himself.
"What, Hagrid?" Ralph asked, exasperated. "What's the point?"

Hagrid looked at him, as if struggling with whether to speak. Finally,
he leaned slightly over the table and said in a low voice, "The point is it
seems pretty plain to me that the Djinn told the Headmaster about that dead
fox an' 'er young! The point is, not only are all the old stories true about
Merlin the Great talkin' to the trees and the birds, he even talks to the
mystical creature-birds of the night! If that great black bird had shown its
red eyes in my presence any other time, I'd have turned on my heel an' run!
But Merlin, he watches the thing fly over almost as if he called it, almost as
if he knows it by its ruddy first name!"
James listened with his mouth pressed into a thin line. Finally, he
straightened in his chair and said as plainly as he dared, "That doesn't mean
he's evil."
Hagrid blinked at him. "Well, o' course not! Who said he was evil?"
James was perplexed. "But you just said—"
"Now hold on, James, an' the rest of yeh. I want to be clear," Hagrid
said seriously. "All I'm saying is that the Headmaster comes from a much
different time, a time that would probably scare the hair off most of us. He
lived in that time and worked in it. It's what he knows. Things that we
would call evil an' bad in this day and age, well… let's just say things
weren't so black and white in the time he comes from. That isn't to say that
the Headmaster himself is bad. I've got every reason to trust him, and trust
him I do! He's just a wee bit… well, wild. If you take my meaning. That's
all."
"But Hagrid," Rose exclaimed, "in the Mirror! We saw him with that…
that awful thing in the swirling black cloak!"
"If that was the Headmaster," Hagrid replied stubbornly, "then he had a
very good reason to be there. Yeh said yourself, Rose, that none of yeh
could hear what the man said. Maybe he was confronting them. Maybe he
was… well, I dunno, but the point is yeh dunno neither."

"That's what I've been saying all along," James said petulantly, glaring
across the table at Rose.
"Fact is," Hagrid went on, "none of yeh know the slightest bit about
what yeh was seeing from start to end. Yeh said Merlin told yeh that the
Mirror showed the past and the future as well as far-off places, didn'ya?
Maybe what yeh were seeing wasn't even from the here'n now. Did yeh
think o' that?"
"Actually," Ralph said thoughtfully, "no, we hadn't."
"But the gravesite!" Rose insisted. "That wasn't from a long time ago!
Volde—er, He Who Must Not Be Named hasn't been dead all that long! But
his grave was all covered with moss and vines, so it couldn't have been
from the past…"
"Let it go, Rose," Ralph shrugged. "You might be right, but what
would we do about it anyway? All we can do is hope Merlin's as good as
his word, like Hagrid says. If he is, we don't have anything to worry about.
If he's not… well, what are we going to do against a bloke that can make
the earth open up and swallow whole armies?"
Rose fumed but didn't respond.
A short while later, the trio finished their teas and bid Hagrid goodbye.
As they left, James peered over into the west corner of the garden. Sure
enough, a very large orange- and purple-striped squash rested there on its
bed of leaves, still glistening with last night's rain.
"I don't care what anyone says," Rose said gravely as they skirted the
Whomping Willow, "I don't trust him. He's not what he says he is."
"As much as I don't agree with Rose," Ralph answered, "this whole
thing does make our new Defence Club seem all the more important."
"How so?" James asked.

"Well, it's obvious, isn't it? If what we saw in the Mirror was true and
was from the present day, then it means some really bad stuff might be
coming. We might actually have an enemy to fight. I, for one, want to be
ready for that."
"Ralph," Rose said in a different voice, "if I didn't find you generally
thick as a brick, I'd be impressed by that."
Ralph blushed a little. "Thanks, I guess."
As they rounded a stand of bushes on the far side of the Whomping
Willow, they ran into Noah, Damien, and Gennifer Tellus, the Ravenclaw
Gremlin. The three were crouched just out of range of the branches,
studying the gnarled tree trunk. The branches of the Willow shifted and
twitched, sensing their presence but not quite able to reach them.
"Hey," Ralph called as they approached the hunkered Gremlins, "we
got permission to start the new Defence Club—"
"Shh!" Noah hissed, raising a hand. "Hold on a minute."
James, Rose, and Ralph crept up behind the three Gremlins, who were
rasping at each other tensely.
"A little lower," Damien hissed. "It's the big one that looks like an
Adam's apple on a really skinny bloke."
Noah shook his head. "We tried that one time before last! I keep telling
you it's on the other side, facing away from the castle. I remember from last
year, with Ted."
Gennifer held a long stick. Biting her tongue in concentration, she held
it out, reaching toward the tree trunk with the stick's tip. The tree leaned
slightly and, almost lazily, whiplashed a branch at the stick. Gennifer
exclaimed painfully as the stick was wrenched from her hand. It spun off
into the thickets and the Willow relaxed again, almost smugly.

"I told you to hold it lower!" Noah exclaimed, stepping away from the
tree and straightening.
"Look, you want to give it a go?" Gennifer replied, looking back over
her shoulder. "Be my guest. But you'll need to go find yourself yet another
stick."
"I can't help if you have longer arms than me," Noah proclaimed. "It's
not my fault you've got the reach of a weregorilla."
"I've got another stick," Damien said patiently. "Here, give it another
go, Gen. We'll hit it eventually."
James watched as Gennifer reached carefully toward the tree trunk
again. The Willow swung its branches, feeling for the stick but not quite
reaching it this time. James asked Noah, "What's this all about?"
"Secret passage, possibly," Noah answered, wiping moisture and grass
clippings from his hands. "We've been coming out and testing it every year
since I first came. It was Ted's idea. Hit the right knot on the trunk and the
tree goes tame enough to get inside."
Rose's eyes brightened. "It leads to a secret passageway? But I thought
all the old secret passages had been sealed off?"
"Well, there's sealed off and there's sealed off," Noah replied. "Thing
is, Hogwarts being as magical as it is, the passages have ways of opening
back up on their own after a while. Either that or new ones get discovered
nearby. Petra discovered the Lokimagus passage just down the hall from the
statue of the OneEyed Witch, and that statue was supposed to lead to a
secret passage back in your parents' day."
"I remember Mum talking about that one," Rose agreed. "She said it
went down to Hogsmeade. I was hoping that one still worked. I wanted to
see Hogsmeade myself this year even though first-years aren't allowed to go
on Hogsmeade weekends."

"Ahh, Hogsmeade," Noah sighed. "Making miscreants out of model
students for as long as I can remember. Ted works down there now, at
Weasleys'. We plan on getting him to buy us Butterbeers at the Triple Sticks
when we go. All of us except Petra, of course."
"What's going on with Petra?" James asked suddenly.
Noah glanced at James. "Oh, nothing major. She just doesn't want to
go because she and Ted used to be a bit of an item. Apparently, it all came
to an end when Ted started seeing Victoire. They kept it secret most of the
summer, but now the whole world knows about it. Somebody blabbed about
it back at King's Cross."
"I didn't blab!" James exclaimed before he could stop himself. "Ted
told me to tell! He wanted to get the word out but didn't want to make a big
thing of it!"
"That was you?" Gennifer said, peering back at James over her
shoulder.
James rolled his eyes. "So that's what Petra's all upset about?"
"She hasn't said so," Noah said, sighing. "Who can tell? She and Ted
were never all that serious, if you ask me. I admit I expected her to end it
first, though. Ted's just a bit too wild for a girl like Petra. She needs a
different kind of man."
"A man whose initials are N. M., you think?" Damien called, grinning.
James felt his face heat. It bothered him that he might have
inadvertently caused Petra's melancholy by revealing Ted and Victoire's
relationship, even if Ted had asked him to do it. For some reason, it also
bothered him that Noah might be interested in taking Ted's place.
Nonchalantly, James asked Noah, "What kind of man does a girl like Petra
want?"

Noah shrugged. "Well, Petra's smart. Smarter than most people know.
She's going places. She needs a bloke who can hunker down and take life
seriously with her. Ted, he's great and we all love him, but he's not the takelife-seriously type."
Rose interjected, "I heard Petra might get the part of Astra in the play.
She'd be great for the role with her long dark hair and blue eyes."
Noah nodded. "If she can get her head around it. It's down to her and
Josephina Bartlett, and Josephina really wants that part."
"It's just the thing Petra needs to get her mind off of Ted Lupin," Rose
said emphatically. "She's prettier than Josephina any day of the week. I'll
help her prepare for the role if I can. She has one more audition, doesn't
she?"
"Later this week," Noah agreed. "I hope she gets it. I'm still hoping to
land the part of Donovan."
"And Donovan and Astra get to dance," Damien sang mistily.
"That's nothing," Noah replied. "Astra and Treus kiss at the end of the
play, and the script calls it 'the kiss of true and everlasting love'."
"They won't really kiss," Rose said, shaking her head. "In plays, they
just press their cheeks together with their heads turned. The audience just
thinks they're kissing."
"Close enough for me," Noah muttered. "How we doing with that
secret knot, Tellus?"
"Don't hassle the maestro while she's working…," Damien said, still
hunkered down next to Gennifer. The Willow was growing restless. Its
trunk creaked ominously as it leaned, trying to lower its branches to
walloping distance. Gennifer's stick weaved nervously near the leaning
trunk.

Ralph was looking apprehensively at the big, swaying tree. "So you've
already been down in the secret passage beneath the Whomping Willow?
Where does it go?"
"As of last year, nowhere," Noah admitted. "It was all blocked off by a
cave-in after a little way. That's why it never occurred to us to mark the
secret knot. Still, it always seems like it'd have been a good idea when we
come back the next year."
"We can't mark the knot," Gennifer said through gritted teeth.
"Otherwise, everyone would be able to use it. We have to just… remember
it… there!"
Gennifer jabbed the stick at the trunk, hitting a large knot near one of
the tree's twisted roots. The tree suddenly straightened and went still.
"Come on!" Noah cried, bolting toward the tree. "We don't have long!"
James threw a look at Rose, then Ralph. Simultaneously, all three
turned and ran toward the tree, following the three Gremlins. Gennifer was
the first to reach the trunk. She ducked and threw herself forward,
disappearing into a deep crack between two enormous roots. Damien and
Noah followed. James hoped there was room inside for six since he was the
last in. As Ralph scrambled into the narrow space, James glanced up. He'd
never been this close to the Whomping Willow before and it looked huge
and deadly as it loomed over him. As he watched, its branches began to
move again. The trunk groaned ominously as it reanimated, angry and
looking for something to whomp. James ducked and threw himself into the
crack between the roots just as a branch swung past him, buffeting him with
its passage.
"Wow," Gennifer said, clambering up, "six people with one knot push!
I'd say that's a new record. Everybody all right?"
"I'll be fine when James gets off my back," Rose complained, grunting.

"Sorry, Rose. I didn't have time to look where I was landing."
Noah lit his wand and held it up. The space was low, ceilinged with the
massive roots of the Whomping Willow. A stone-walled passage led down
into darkness. The Gremlins began to descend it, followed closely by
James, Rose, and Ralph. After about thirty paces, the group came to a halt.
In the lead, Noah held his wand higher, whistling through his teeth.
"Eureka," Damien said excitedly.
"What?" Rose exclaimed, standing on her toes to see over James'
shoulder. "I can't see! What is it?"
"Hogwarts finds a way," Gennifer replied. "It looks like there was a
flood down here last spring. Washed a bunch of the dirt and gravel away.
Look, there's room to squeeze through if you don't mind getting dirty."
"Excellent!" Noah proclaimed, his voice echoing from further ahead.
There was a distant splash. "The passage beyond is completely intact!
There's a little water to slosh through, and some seriously busy spiders, but
the wandlight scares them away. I'd guess this goes straight on through from
here."
"Are we going now?" Ralph asked. "I didn't really come prepared for
any, er, journeys."
"Don't get anxious, Ralphinator," Noah answered, scrambling back
around the former cave-in. "We'll go the rest of the way later. It's just good
to know the passageway's back open again."
"And we're the first to find it," Gennifer added.
"So don't you lot tell anyone," Damien finished, stabbing a finger in
the air and looking severely at James, Rose, and Ralph. "Especially you,
Mr. Slytherin."

"Easy, Damascus," Noah said. "Ralph's loyal to the Gremlin cause.
Come on, let's get back out of here."
"So where does the passage go to?" Rose asked as they retraced their
steps.
"Our best guess is that it goes to Hogsmeade," Gennifer answered. "So
you might get your wish about sneaking in a visit this year."
"The passage goes to Hogsmeade?" Ralph replied, a bit irked about
Damien's lack of confidence. "Where does it come up? Couldn't somebody
just trace it back to Hogwarts?"
"Worried that your dad missed another weak spot in the school's
'security perimeter'?" Damien asked, smiling crookedly. "Don't worry. Old
Daddy Dolohov's defensive perimeter is safe. Nobody will be coming back
from the other side. Except us, hopefully."
"The passage doesn't go to Hogsmeade directly, Ralph," Noah said.
They reached the bunker beneath the Whomping Willow. Carefully,
Gennifer reached out and found the secret knot. The tree went still and she
scrambled out.
"So where does it go to, then?" James asked as the group climbed
quickly out of the secret opening.
"Our best guess is it goes to a delightful place called the 'Shrieking
Shack'," Damien said, stopping outside the perimeter of the tree. "Nobody
ever goes there."
"I can see why," Ralph nodded. "Does it, you know, shriek?"
"No, it's just a name, Ralph," Gennifer said, clapping the big boy on
the shoulder. "It hasn't shrieked in decades. Although apparently it used to
make quite a fuss, didn't it? Supposedly, the whole place shook."

Ralph looked back at James and Rose. "Are they making fun of me?"
"Yeah, Ralph," James nodded. "But it's all out of love. Don't sweat it."
Ralph accepted that and the three began to follow the Gremlins back
across the wet grass. As they reached the castle, he asked, "So the Shrieking
Shack didn't really used to shriek?"
James shook his head. "I didn't say that, Ralph… I just said they were
making a little fun of you. It's best if you don't ask any more about it."
Rose concurred. "Really, Ralph. Trust us."
Ralph opened his mouth, considered it, and then closed it again. He
sighed and the three students climbed the steps into the castle, following the
smells of lunch.

8. THE AUDITION
The next day's Defence Against the Dark Arts class was slightly more
bearable than previous classes, if only because they had a guest teacher's
assistant. The assistant was possibly even more of a celebrity than
Debellows himself, since he was not only the new leader of the Harriers
special forces squadron, but was also a former Bulgarian World Cup
Quidditch player. Viktor Krum strode purposely into the gym as Debellows
introduced him, and the assembly of students applauded roundly. James
knew Krum very vaguely, having met him once or twice years earlier.
Viktor Krum had, of course, competed in the Triwizard Tournament
alongside James' dad, Aunt Fleur and Cedric. During that time, he'd also
had a short, romantic relationship with Aunt Hermione as well, to the extent
that on the few occasions that Viktor had been in the same room with the
Weasley family, Aunt Hermione had tended to look in the other direction
quite a lot and Uncle Ron had puffed his chest out and adopted an attitude
of noisy surliness.

Viktor spoke to the class in his irrepressible accent, telling them how
he'd trained alongside Kendrick Debellows in his early years in the
Harriers, and assuring everyone that he wouldn't be where he was today if
not for the man's leadership and example. James was almost immediately
bored. He liked Viktor quite a lot, but he disliked Debellows enough that
the sight of the man absorbing his protégé's praise made James a bit ill. The
upshot was that there were no troops through the Gauntlet that day,
although Debellows challenged Krum to a 'manly contest' to see which one
of them could make it through first. Viktor had turned down the challenge,
and James liked to believe it was because the younger man simply hadn't
wanted to shame his mentor.
As the class wore on, James saw that Ralph, who was only slightly
more artistic than James, was doodling an idea for the new Defence Club
sign-up sheet.
As they filed out of the gym and made their way to History of Magic,
James said to Ralph, "You know, we really shouldn't be putting those up
until we know we have a teacher."
"That's your job," Ralph shrugged. "I have to do my part. Besides,
you'll talk Cedric into it. You're good at that."
"Yeah, well, I haven't talked him into it yet."
"You'd best get on it, then," Rose said, meeting them at an intersection.
"The first meeting is tomorrow night."
James nearly dropped his book. "Tomorrow? Since when?"
"Since I started spreading the word around the Great Hall at breakfast,"
Rose replied simply. "I only meant to tell Henrietta Littleby and Fiona
Fourcompass, but you know how Fiona is. The whole Ravenclaw table was
talking about it by the time I left. There's a lot of excitement about it.
Nobody likes the way Debellows is running D.A.D.A. even though it was
sort of sweet to see Viktor in the halls this morning."

"But we don't even know where we're meeting!" James exclaimed. "I
thought we talked about starting things up at the end of next week?"
"That was before we talked to the Headmaster and saw what we saw in
his Mirror. Ralph's right. Things seem a bit more urgent now. Besides,"
Rose sniffed, stopping at the door to History of Magic, "we agreed I was in
charge of scheduling."
"Yeah, I suppose, but… the entire Ravenclaw Table?"
Rose nodded. "And Louis is spreading the word with the Hufflepuffs."
"Louis!" James cried, raising his voice again. "You got Louis
involved?"
"He overheard me, so I thought I'd put him to work. What's the matter?
I thought you said that anyone who wanted could be involved?"
"Yeah, well…," James said, lowering his voice, "anybody we wanted
to know about it."
"I don't think it works that way," Ralph replied. "Besides, word's all
over the school by now."
James exhaled in frustration, but it was too late to do anything about it.
He'd have to go and find Cedric tonight if he could. Thinking that, he turned
and shouldered his way into the crowded classroom where Professor Binns
was already burbling away, his back to the students as he made ghostly
notes on the illegible chalkboard.
James finally had the opportunity he was waiting for that night after
dinner. Ralph said goodnight at the stairs and Rose was in the library doing
some homework. Once Ralph had descended into the cellars, James turned
away from the stairway and walked along the main hall toward the portico.
He felt rather strongly that he had to do this by himself. As he turned into
the corridor that bore the trophy case, he slowed, looking around. There was

no one about and the halls were quite silent as most of the students retired
to their common rooms for the evening.
James walked lightly along the display cases, passing the photos of
ancient House Quidditch teams and displays of old game balls, plaques, and
trophies. He paused for a moment in front of a Quidditch tournament trophy
engraved with a list of names. It was rather old and tarnished, but the name
near the bottom was still perfectly legible. 'James Potter – Chaser', it read in
flowing script. Here was the name of the grandfather James had never
known. He felt suddenly very sad because it reminded him that he had no
grandfathers at all anymore. The plaque was rather dusty, probably
forgotten by most everyone that moved daily through these halls. James had
a strong urge to reach into the case and touch the plaque, as if to make sure
it was real. It was like an anchor that connected him to a person and a time
he'd never known. James glanced around the corridor, assuring himself no
one was looking, and then stepped toward the case. The glass door
squeaked slightly as he opened it. He reached in and ran a finger across the
name engraved near the bottom, drawing a faint line in the dust. He could
barely feel the etching of the letters.
Suddenly, for no apparent reason, James thought of the words his
father had said to him on the night of Granddad's funeral: Granddad is
really the third father I've lost… I'm back to where I started. This name on
the trophy was where everything started. This trophy is from those last few
years before everything changed, James thought, before Grandma and
Granddad were killed by Voldemort; before Dad's godfather, Sirius, was
lost in the Hall of Mysteries; before old Dumbledore was struck down on
one of the roofs of this very castle; this was back before any of that had
happened, when everybody was happy and nobody had had to die yet. If
only… if only…
"I remember seeing your dad standing there in front of that very
plaque," a voice said quietly.
James wasn't surprised. He didn't turn around as he said, "I came down
here to look for you. I had a feeling this is where you came when you didn't
know where else to go."

"This is the first place I remember being after I died," the ghostly voice
of Cedric Diggory said. "There was a long, long time of nothing, although it
sometimes felt only like minutes. Finally, here I was, looking down at my
own picture by the Triwizard Cup. I spent a lot of time doing that. It was…
comforting, in a way. I can't see myself in mirrors, you know. It's just one of
the peculiarities of being a ghost."
James closed the trophy case and turned to Cedric. "You saw my dad
standing here, looking at Granddad's name on the plaque?"
Cedric smiled at the memory. "It wasn't just him. It was all three of
them. Ron, Hermione, and Harry. It was their first year. I didn't know them
then, but I knew who your father was. Everybody did."
James looked back at the plaque again. It helped to know that his dad
had also looked at that name and felt some of the same things he was
feeling. He sighed.
"The past is a steel trap," Cedric said. "Trust me on that one, James."
James glanced up, as if in surprise.
"What?" Cedric said. "It wasn't that profound, was it?"
James shook his head. "No. I mean, yeah, I guess, but that's not what I
was thinking. I just had the strongest, weirdest feeling that this has
happened before. And all of a sudden, I thought of Ralph's story."
Cedric looked puzzled. James went on, waving a hand. "It's this story
that we learned about in Wizlit. Professor Revalvier says that all great
magical stories were meant to be told by word of mouth because written
words cage them and make them tame. Magical stories are meant to stay
alive. They change with each retelling because they pick up the spirit of the
teller. I don't know why; I just thought of the last line from the story Ralph
told us in class. It's the only line I can ever get exactly right when I try to
write it down."

"What is it?" Cedric asked.
James was thoughtful. "'Then I am the King of the Cats,'" he said, as if
tasting the words.
Cedric's ghost was silent. After a moment, he asked, "So what does it
mean?"
"That's just it," James said, shaking his head. "It doesn't seem to mean
anything unless I'm not thinking about it. Then, all of a sudden, it'll pop into
my head, just like it did now, and it'll seem really important. I just can't put
my finger on it. It's like seeing something out of the corner of your eye,
something that vanishes as soon as you look right at it."
"Well, I guess if it really is important, it'll come to you when you need
it," Cedric said, shrugging. "You said you came down here looking for me?"
"Oh," James replied, shaking himself. "Yeah. Er…" He sighed, and
then looked the ghost right in his semi-transparent eye. "We need your help,
Ced. I don't know how else to put it. We're putting together this club, Ralph
and Rose and me. Actually, it was Noah, Sabrina, and Damien's idea, but
we're the ones that went to Merlin and got permission and everything.
Honestly, we're not even the first people to do it. My dad had a club like
this way back in his day, although it was after you, you know, er… anyway,
we need to learn how to do defensive spells and techniques and our new
teacher this year refuses to teach us anything except how to pull a
hamstring. We've got permission to officially start the club, and by now, it
seems like the whole school already knows about it. Our first meeting's
tomorrow, but we don't even have a teacher. That's why I came to find you.
When we first talked about it, you were the first person that Ralph, Rose,
and I thought of to teach us defensive magic."
"You can't be serious," Cedric said, smiling a little crookedly. "I'm a
ghost, if you haven't noticed. Not only do I not have a working wand
anymore, technically, I don't even have fingers. I couldn't Stun a dustbunny. I have a hard enough time magicking the lanterns out when I do my

'Specter of Silence' routine. And you think I can teach defensive magical
technique?"
"Well, yeah!" James said, warming to the subject. "I mean, you were a
great wizard, even while you were still in school! Everybody says so! Even
Viktor Krum talks about how you outwitted the dragon and took on the
merpeople. You were a natural! Besides, you have actual battle experience,
having been all through the Triwizard Tournament. And you learned under
Dumbledore, who everybody says was the golden age of Hogwarts. Come
on, Cedric! It's perfect!"
"I don't think so, James," Cedric said, his smile fading. "It's great that
you thought to ask me and all, but…"
"Look, Cedric, this isn't just for us," James said, stepping a bit closer to
the ghost. "You said you didn't think there was a place for you here
anymore. All your old friends and classmates have moved on. But there are
a whole bunch of us who really do need you, here and now. My dad says
you were totally excellent with your spellwork and technique, and
everybody knows you were a natural leader. I know you still remember it
all because ghosts don't experience time the same way the living do. Come
on, what do you say?"
Cedric's ghost was flitting backwards, his face downcast as he shook
his head. "I can't, James. Part of me would really like to do it, but I can't.
You wouldn't understand."
"Look, Ced, just try it for a week or two. It'll be great! Everyone will
love you and I just know you'll be able to teach us loads of stuff.
Besides…"
James faltered, not sure if he should go on. Cedric stopped and looked
back at him. James took a deep breath and continued.
"Remember the end of last year, that night when we talked in the
Gryffindor common room? You told me there was a sense of Voldemort still
in the halls here, even though he was dead. Well, Rose and Ralph and me,

we saw something. And… I've been sensing things. Something's up, and it
has something to do with the old Death Eaters, and Voldemort's grave, and
some really scary creature in a cloak that looks like it's made out of swirling
smoke and ash. Rose even thinks that the Headmaster is involved, although
I don't agree. What I'm trying to say is that there could be a battle coming.
Debellows isn't teaching us anything worth using in a real magical fight. We
just want to be prepared. We want to be ready. You're from the time when
Voldemort was still alive. You know how best to fight these people. You're
perfect, and we need you."
Cedric looked at James for a long, tense moment. He seemed to be
struggling with himself. Finally, he lowered his brow and looked away.
"You're right about one thing, James. I did have experience with battle. I
was killed in my first one. I lasted a total of ten seconds."
James was flabbergasted. "Ced, you can't mean that. That night in the
graveyard… that wasn't a battle. I've heard Dad talk about it. He was there,
remember? Pettigrew shot you with no warning. You can't seriously
think…"
"Really, James," Cedric said, looking up. The ghost's eyes were very
grave. "Don't ask me again. I have my reasons. I can't, all right?"
James met the ghost's gaze. After a moment, he sighed deeply. "All
right, Cedric. Forget it. Sorry to bother you. See you around."
James turned and began to plod away. He got halfway down the
corridor when Cedric's voice said, "Does it hurt?"
James stopped in his tracks and narrowed his eyes. He glanced back
over his shoulder. "Does what hurt?"
Cedric hadn't moved. He hovered near the trophy case, looking
solemnly as James. "The mark on your forehead."
James' heart skipped a beat. Without thinking, he touched the place

where he'd felt the itch and the strange dart of pain outside the Headmaster's
office. "You can see it?" he whispered harshly.
Cedric nodded slowly.
"What—" James began, but his voice failed him. He cleared his throat.
"What does it look like?"
Cedric's expression didn't change. He knew James knew. "It looks like
a lightning bolt, James. Just like your father's. Except it's green. It glows a
little."
James' eyes were wide and his heart pounded. The spot on his forehead
felt warm. It tingled a little now that he thought about it. He looked
helplessly up at Cedric again.
"Don't worry," Cedric said, sensing James' question. "I don't think
anyone else can see it. Apart from the other ghosts, maybe. It's only been
there for a week or so. At first, it was very faint, but now… That's why I
asked if it hurt."
James' thoughts were whirling. What could it mean? Why was it
happening? "It does hurt sometimes," James admitted. "But just a little.
Mostly, it just itches. Except for one time, right outside the Headmaster's
office. Merlin looked at me and it… it stung. But just for a second."
Cedric nodded once, solemnly. "Pay attention to it, James. It must be
there for a reason. But be careful. It might not be trustworthy."
James nodded, barely hearing. He glanced around quickly, just to make
sure no one had approached and heard the conversation. The corridor was
still empty. When he looked up again, Cedric's ghost had vanished.
"Cedric?" James whispered. There was no response. James couldn't be
sure whether the ghost had truly left, or just gone invisible. "Cedric, if
you're still there, and you change your mind… well, you know where to
find me, right?"

The corridor was utterly still and silent. James touched his forehead
again, wonderingly and worryingly. Finally, he sighed, turned, and began to
trudge back toward the staircases and the Gryffindor common room.

As soon as James reached the common room, he told Rose about his
meeting with Cedric. She was surprisingly understanding about the ghost's
refusal to teach the class, remembering the conversation they'd had in the
corridor a week earlier.
"He'll probably come around," she said, nodding. "We'll just need to
find somebody else in the meantime. It's fine, really. None of the students
we talked to today knew anything about Cedric anyway."
"But who can we get to teach in the meantime?" James fretted. "People
will be coming tomorrow with some expectations, Rose! We can't just tell
them to open their Defence textbooks and start trying out whatever spells
they feel like! It'd be a complete mess!"
Rose looked thoughtful. "We could ask Viktor, maybe. He's going to
be here until the end of next week. He certainly knows his stuff."
"He's too tight with Debellows," James said. "He'd tell him first off
and we'd never hear the end of it."
Rose had been scanning the room idly. Suddenly, her eyes widened.
She glanced back at James, a crooked smile curling her lip. "There is one
person already among us who seems to know a good bit of defensive
magic."

"The older years don't want to do it," James sighed. "We've already
been through it with them, Rose."
"Actually," Rose said, looking askance again, "the person I was
thinking of is a year younger than you."
James followed the direction of his cousin's gaze. Scorpius Malfoy sat
at a table across the room, idly flipping pages in a textbook. He glanced up,
noticing James' gaze, and sneered slightly.
"Not in a thousand years, Rose," James said flatly, turning back and
crossing his arms. "Not in a million years."
"I'm just saying," Rose said innocently, "you said he was using
Stunning Spells on the train against Albus. And the other second-years have
been talking about what he did to your headboard, which is, you have to
admit, pretty impressive. He knows levitation already, and—"
"No, Rose!" James hissed, interrupting. "I'll take a term of Debellows
and the Gauntlet before I'll ask him to teach me anything!"
"Are you willing to speak for the rest of the club's members too?"
"He's not a teacher! He's a stuck-up prat! He probably wouldn't even
do it if we asked him! People like him aren't exactly the sharing type."
Rose smoothed her robes primly. "Well, you can't know unless you try.
Really, James. Do we want a teacher or not?"
James shook his head. "We want a teacher, not a smug little twit who's
learned a few tricks. If you want him to teach, you ask him."
"I might just do that," Rose replied breezily. She collected her bag and
walked away. James watched her, but she merely climbed the stairs to the
girls' dormitories. If she meant to ask Scorpius to teach the new Defence

Club, she apparently wasn't planning on doing it tonight. After a while,
James climbed the stairs on the opposite side of the room.
As he got ready for bed, he thought carefully about the conversation
he'd had with Cedric's ghost. He should've known that Cedric would refuse
to lead the club, and yet it really had seemed like part of Cedric wanted to
do it. And what could it possibly mean that Cedric was seeing a glowing
green lightning bolt scar on James' head? As James finished brushing his
teeth in the tiny washroom, he leaned in, examining himself in the mirror.
As far as he could see, his forehead was completely unmarked. And yet,
even now, he could feel that tiny, telltale tingling. Often, James had seen
people pointing at his father, recognizing him by the famous scar, and
James had thought it would be cool to have such a mark. Back then, James
hadn't understood the price his dad had paid for that scar. Even now, he
couldn't completely understand it, but he understood it enough, especially
now that he'd lost grandfather Weasley. He knew enough not to want such a
thing for himself anymore. For a while last year, James had struggled with
expectations of following in the footsteps of his famous father. Now, James
knew those footsteps were far too big for him. More importantly, James had
his own path to travel, and it was unique to him. It wasn't just a replay of
what his father had done. He'd learned that lesson, hadn't he? So why was
he experiencing this phantom lightning bolt scar? What was it trying to tell
him? And could he trust it?
There was no point in worrying about it. And yet it was hard to let it
go. Eventually, as he climbed into his bed, James distracted himself by
trying to think of someone else who might possibly serve as teacher for the
new Defence Club. He couldn't think of anyone, and he certainly wasn't
going to ask Scorpius, but it did take his mind off the mysterious tingling on
his forehead. Finally, eventually, James drifted to sleep.

There were voices, echoing indistinctly, or perhaps it was only one
voice, but the echoes made it sound like more. James couldn't understand
any of the actual words, but the sound of the voice was both soothing and
maddening, like scratching a poison ivy rash. It was dark, but there were
flashes of something, like glints of light on the edges of blades scything the
air. Beneath the voice was the clank and rumble of ancient machinery and a
tinkling of water, all echoing disorientingly. Footsteps rattled on stone and
the voice grew closer. James could hear words, but they were disconnected
and strange. Light bloomed, flickering as if through water. It was green, and
there were faces in it. A man and a woman, beckoning, smiling sadly,
hopefully…
"James, you're dreaming, you big div. Wake up!"
A bag of laundry whumped James' head and he jerked upright,
blinking.
"S'bout time," Graham muttered sleepily. "I been trying to get you
awake for a solid minute. You always talk in your sleep?"
James looked blearily at Graham. "How would I know," he muttered
grumpily, "if I do it when I'm asleep?" The dream circled his head like a
swarm of gnats, but he couldn't remember much of it. Dawn light seeped
into the room as Graham slid out of bed.
"Well, we might as well get up anyway," Graham said. "I can smell
bacon all the way up here. Let's go get a plateful before Hugo gets down
there and wolfs it all."
The day brightened to a wonderfully warm autumn afternoon. The
morning's classes droned by and James hardly noticed, distracted in turns
by thoughts of the previous night's strange dream, fretting about who could
lead that afternoon's first Defence Club meeting, and Cedric's worrying
words about the phantom scar on his head. At some point, James connected
the dream with the scar, remembering that his father's scar had once been a
sort of gateway into the thoughts of Voldemort. But Voldemort was long

since dead. His father's scar hadn't hurt him in two decades. Whatever the
phantom sign on James' forehead meant, it couldn't be a link to any
resurgent Dark Lord, for his dad would surely have felt it first.
Unless, James thought with a start, it was connecting him to the
Bloodline, the secret successor of Voldemort that the tree sprite had told
him about last year. James shuddered as he knelt on the grass at Hagrid's
Care of Magical Creatures class. How could he possibly be connecting to
the Bloodline? His father, Harry Potter, was the one with the scar, not
James. Why him?
Your father's battle is over, the tree sprite had said, yours begins.
"James," Hagrid said, glancing at him over the other students,
"something wrong with yer Eel den?"
James looked down at the muddy, slimy mess in front of his knees. He
plunged a hand into it, feeling for the Mucous Eel he'd just planted. "No,
no, it's great, Hagrid. Slimy as can be. Really, it's great."
"This is completely repulsive," Ralph said, mucking his hand in his
own excavation. It slopped and slurped disgustingly. Suddenly, he lunged
and pulled, yanking the tail of his Mucous Eel out of the muck.
"Very good!" Hagrid called heartily. "Ralph's got 'is turned upright. As
soon as the Eel's face-down in its den, it goes limp. Jus' rub its belly nice an'
slow. That'll make it hibernate. Then we can harvest the Eel's slime. Very
useful stuff, Mucous Eel slime."
Graham grimaced and flung ropes of slime from his fingers. "So is this
thing a plant or an animal, Hagrid?"
"Well, what class are yeh in, Mr. Warton?" Hagrid asked in reply.
"Care of Magical Creatures," Graham answered in a monotone.
"Then since this isn't Professor Longbottom's Herbology class," Hagrid

said, grinning, "I s'pose yeh can assume the Slime Eel is a magical creature
with some unusual planty tendencies, can't yeh?"
"Professor Hagrid!" Morgan Patonia suddenly called, struggling to
keep her voice even. "I think I pulled my Eel too hard!"
Everyone looked. Morgan had leapt to her feet and was holding her
Mucous Eel at arm's length, cringing away from the flailing, meter-long
creature. Fans of greenish slime flew from the Eel, splattering Morgan's
robes and the ground beneath it.
"Don' let 'er go!" Hagrid cried, throwing up his hands. "Lower 'er back
to 'er den, but don' let go! She'll wriggle down to the lake an' we'll never see
'er again, an' those Eels are right dear! Just lower 'er carefully head-first into
the den, that's the way, Miss Patonia."
Ralph watched Morgan dip the wriggling Eel back to the mess of slimy
dirt. Her face was a mask of utter disgust. The Eel's arrow-shaped head
touched the mud, and the body lunged forward, trying to burrow into the
den.
"There yeh go, then," Hagrid sighed, relaxing. "No harm done. A good
lesson for us all, in fact. Keep the head in the den. Better safe than sorry, eh,
Miss Patonia?"
Morgan smiled gamely, looking as if she was, in fact, plenty sorry.
Slime glistened in ropey slashes across her robe.
"Before I found out I was a wizard," Ralph said wistfully, staring at
Morgan's robes, "I was planning to attend the Byron Bruggman School for
Boys. I bet they don't do anything with Mucous Eels there."
"Just think what you'd be missing," Graham said, smiling ruefully. He
flicked a fingerful of slime at Ralph.
Later that day, James was making his way through the crowded halls,
glancing surreptitiously around, as if worried he was being followed. The

afternoon free period had been co-opted by Professor Curry's drama
auditions, and James was on his way to the Muggle Studies classroom. At a
cross-corridor, James met Rose and Ralph, who were talking animatedly.
"What are you two doing?" James asked, stopping and glancing at each
one in turn.
"Well, I was coming to watch Petra audition for the role of Astra,"
Rose replied, "if that's all right with you, cousin."
"And I'm just going along because the alternative is to go start my
Charms homework," Ralph replied. "Rose says she'll help me with it if I
wait until tonight. It's a no-brainer. What about you?"
"Me?" James said, his voice squeaking guiltily. "Nothing. Really. I
just… Same reason. Come on, let's go then."
As they entered the Muggle Studies classroom, James' face was beet
red. He walked quickly to the front of the classroom, hoping Ralph and
Rose wouldn't follow him. He angled into the second row, and was annoyed
to see that both of them were filing in after him.
"What's with you, James?" Rose asked, sitting down and frowning at
him curiously.
"Did you find a place for the Defence Club to meet?" James replied,
changing the subject.
"Yeeaahh," Rose said slowly, still studying James' face. "The
gymnasium isn't being used in the evenings, so I've gotten us permission to
meet there. It's all taken care of."
"The gym?" Ralph moaned. "I hate that place. That's where Debellows
has his class. Is that all you could find?"
"It's the perfect meeting place," Rose replied stiffly. "There're no tables
or chairs to get in the way and there are already plenty of targets for spell

practice. And eventually, if we begin conducting practice duels, the padded
floors will be very helpful."
"Are you sure duels are a good idea?" Ralph asked. "I mean, James did
tell the Headmaster we wouldn't be practicing on each other."
"Duels are essential to proper defensive technique, Ralph," Rose said,
rolling her eyes. "You can't get any good shooting spells at non-moving
targets. Besides, I'd rather the Headmaster not know the extent of our
training. He might try to shut us down."
James scowled. "Rose, that's ridiculous. Merlin would probably be
happy that we're learning real magical battle techniques."
"Oh? Then why'd he hire Debellows in the first place?" Rose asked,
raising her eyebrows.
"Merlin's not in charge of those kind of decisions," James replied, but
uncertainly.
"My mum and your dad both work at the Ministry, James. We both
know that the Headmaster has final verdict about faculty. Besides, Merlin
isn't the kind of man to let other people make decisions for him. Debellows
is here because Merlin wants him here."
Ralph said, "That doesn't mean he's trying to keep us from learning
anything useful."
"No," Rose agreed easily. "But if he was, Debellows is a great way to
make sure we didn't. And after what we saw in the Mirror, I'd rather not
take any chances."
James opened his mouth to argue with Rose, but at that moment,
Professor Curry stood and cleared her throat.
"Thank you all so much for coming," she trilled. "These auditions
aren't mandatory class-times, so I take it as a sign of healthy interest in our

production that so many of you have come to observe. Of course, this is not
exactly how auditions are conducted in the Muggle theatre, but in the
interests of education, we've chosen a rather more public casting format.
Today, we'll be completing auditions for the role of Astra, Treus, King
Julian, and the Marsh Hag. Final decisions will be made by myself and the
elected representatives from the major theatre departments. Let's show
some appreciation for the head of the props department, Mr. Jason Smith,
the director of the costume shop, Miss Gennifer Tellus, the head of the stage
crew, Mr. Hugo Paulson, and finally, my official production assistant and
associate director, Miss Tabitha Corsica."
The four representatives were seated at a long table arranged in a front
corner, positioned at an angle so that it faced both the classroom and the
area designated as the audition stage. The four students accepted the round
of halfhearted applause, nodding and smiling. Hugo stood and threw his
arms wide, as if accepting an award. He bowed deeply and Gennifer Tellus
yanked him back into his seat, rolling her eyes. At the end of the table,
Tabitha smiled inscrutably. Briefly, she made eye contact with James and
winked. James frowned at her.
"First up," Professor Curry said, consulting a sheaf of parchment in her
hand, "we will be viewing the final two candidates for the role of Astra.
Miss Josephina Bartlett, seventh-year, Ravenclaw, will read first. Please, as
always, silence from the gallery is appreciated. That means no applause,
thank you. Miss Bartlett, whenever you are ready."
Josephina Bartlett virtually pranced to the front of the room, her robes
bouncing around her and her long blonde hair catching the sunlight from
the windows.
"Thank you, all of you, and particularly the parts committee,"
Josephina said, smiling winningly. "Whomever you choose, this has been a
wonderful opportunity for me and all of the other candidates."
"Just read, Josephina," Gennifer said, arching an eyebrow.
Josephina cranked her grin a notch higher, glaring at Gennifer, then

suddenly dropped her arms and head as if she'd been switched off. She took
a deep breath, apparently staring at the floor between her feet. Then, slowly,
she raised her head. Her eyes were glistening. She stared out over the
assembled students, a look of beatific anguish etched onto her face.
"Behold!" she exclaimed, raising her arm so fast that her sleeve
flopped. She pointed straight ahead. Sitting at the committee table, Hugo
actually looked to see what Josephina was pointing at. Gennifer nudged him
in the ribs with her elbow. Josephina drew a huge, shuddering breath. "Be
that the waning sun to light my love's returning sail, or are my eyes
deceived by heart's desire? If't be that now he lies at th' ocean's deepest
grave, then ne'er permit my soul to wake, nor fervid dreams to pass: t'is
better laid in slumber's crypt than t'walk in living death, the world, my hell,
without dear Treus! Hark, my heart, from plight to break, it must! O Treus,
is't thee? State thy coming now, or let me join thy bed and sleep in dreary
death! But daren't restrain my soul to waiting anguish! Treus, make thy
answer known, or bid my soul depart— depart!—to flee to everlasting sleep
—to death!"
Josephina fell silent, and a single tear traced a path down her cheek.
Her lip quivered minutely. Then, suddenly, her face cleared. She wiped the
tear away with her sleeve and smiled at the gallery. There was a collective
exhale. Even James had been holding his breath. Rose glanced over at him,
annoyed. James shrugged and Rose rolled her eyes.
"Nicely done, Miss Bartlett," Curry said from her seat at the table.
"Perhaps a bit, er, melodramatic but certainly quite evocative. Any
comments from the table?"
Hugo's face was screwed up with concentration. "What's 'fervid'
mean?"
Gennifer sighed, and then turned to Josephina. "You've obviously
practiced, Jo, and it shows. Nice preparation."
"Tell me," Tabitha said, lowering her eyes to the tabletop and
furrowing her brow, "were you attempting to present Astra as sad and

forlorn, or are we to believe that she has just experienced a complete frontal
lobotomy?"
Josephina's smile went brittle. "Take it however you want, Tabitha. I
don't think anyone else shares your, ah, professional interpretation."
"I'm not sure that matters exactly," Tabitha said sweetly, meeting
Josephina's eyes.
"If you wanted the part," Josephina said, dropping her smile, "then you
should've auditioned for it. Otherwise, let those few who know how to act
do their job."
"Point noted, Miss Bartlett," Curry said quickly. "Please feel free to
return to your seat. Now, also reading for the part of Astra, we have Petra
Morganstern, seventh-year, Gryffindor. Miss Morganstern, are you prepared
for your reading?"
Petra rose from her seat at the back of the room. James turned to watch
her approach the stage area. She had the script with her, and as she turned to
face the gallery, she consulted it. Her lips moved as she read the first lines.
"I tried to practice with her," Rose whispered to James, "but she said
she wanted to do it fresh, with no rehearsing. I swear, she's hardly even read
the whole script yet."
Petra lowered the script again and coughed into her fist. Finally, she
looked out over the crowd of students, her face almost blank but for a very
slight furrowing of her brow. There was almost ten seconds of silence, and
James was worried that Petra had already forgotten her lines. Finally,
almost in a whisper, Petra said the first word of the reading: "Hark."
The entire room seemed to lean forward as Petra recited the lines,
quietly, thoughtfully, as if to herself. Her voice rose only to normal
speaking volume as she reached the end.
"O Treus, is't thee?" she said, and her voice was full of doubt, as if she

knew Astra's hope was as frail as tissue. "State thy coming now, or let me
join thy bed and sleep in dreary death…" She paused, and her voice
dropped again, to just above a whisper. "Treus, make thy answer known, or
bid my soul depart… to flee to everlasting sleep… to death."
Petra stopped, her face still wearing the same expression she'd begun
with. She seemed to be looking through the back wall at something very
far-off, like a mirage. Then, without a glance at the committee table, she
tucked the script under her arm and walked back down the center aisle.
James watched her until she returned to her seat.
"Very nice, Miss Morganstern," Professor Curry said. "A bit soft for
the stage, but we can work on the histrionics when the time comes."
"She missed the second 'depart'," Josephina muttered from her seat.
There didn't seem to be any comments from the table. Curry stood,
producing her sheaf of parchments again and adjusting her spectacles.
"Next, we have final readings for the part of Treus. We've narrowed the
candidates to some of the younger years since Treus is meant to be the
younger of Astra's two suitors."
James' face burned. He'd never told Ralph or Rose that he'd signed up
for the part of Treus. His first reading had gone fairly well, although it had
only been Professor Curry and a few first-years at that initial audition. He
didn't even know who else was in line for the part. He glanced over at Rose
and Ralph.
"I need to tell you something," he whispered urgently.
"Shh!" Rose hissed.
"Only two candidates remain for the role of Treus," Curry was saying.
"One is from Slytherin and the other is from Gryffindor, but ironically, both
are from the same family. First up, in order of first name since they both
have the same last name," Curry smiled indulgently and took off her
spectacles, "first-year, Slytherin, Albus Potter."

Simultaneously, James, Ralph, and Rose's mouths dropped open. Rose
and Ralph turned toward James, but James spun in his seat, looking for his
brother. Albus jumped to his feet and jogged to the front of the room,
throwing a smile and a shrug in James' direction. James couldn't believe it.
Albus, in a play? Of course, it wasn't any more surprising than James
himself trying out for a play, but still. So this had been the meaning of
Tabitha's sly wink from the committee table. She'd probably put Albus up to
it, just to cause a rift between the two brothers. And Albus was letting her
succeed in the attempt. James fumed angrily in his seat.
"You little twonk!" Rose rasped, elbowing James. "Why didn't you tell
us?"
"I tried!" James replied, still watching his brother hop onto the stage
area. "Er, ten seconds ago."
Albus had apparently memorized his reading. He cleared his throat,
and then glanced aside at the committee table. "Am I supposed to say
anything?" he asked brightly. "This is only my second time trying out for a
play. Am I supposed to thank the academy or something first?"
"That comes rather later, Mr. Potter," Curry said, smiling indulgently.
"Just read the lines, please. At your leisure."
Albus nodded. To James' eye, his brother didn't look the slightest bit
nervous. He bobbed on the balls of his feet a little, and then flung out his
hands, as if encompassing the room. "Foul Donovan!" he cried, his face
darkening. "Thou trait'rous malcontent! Had been there room amongst my
thoughts for more than Eros' spell and vanity, I might have seen thy wicked
plot afoot. My sinister and foolish pride did make me bade thy oily tongue,
and dreams of fame to take this quest of doom; and now I lie so far
removed an obstacle to vile and vicious victory. O Astra, wife of mine at
heart, reverse my sails and send a wind to turn us north; we still may beat
that villain's storm! To arms, we'll take, O men, to bear the force of
righteous truth: the spear to pierce his lying heart! But spy, his clouds hath
blocked the sun, and time hath turned to foe! Wizards and men, forth draw

ye wands and wits to fight the violent seas this night, that by the morn we'll
hold our win, or lie in beds of ocean sand: our beaten glory's shrine!"
Albus finished his rousing speech with a triumphant cry, shaking an
invisible wand at the sky. There was a scattering of laughter and a few
whoops of hearty encouragement. This speech was, after all, a classic
rallying cry in the wizarding world. A few brave observers had even recited
the last line alongside Albus, grinning and shaking their own invisible
wands.
"Thank you, Mr. Potter," Curry called loudly, stifling the outbursts.
"Very spirited but not exactly as grave as one might expect. The soldiers are
not embarking on a Quidditch match; they are facing the likelihood of their
own doom. One might expect their leader to be a bit less glib. Still though,
very enthusiastically performed. Please return to your seat."
Curry didn't need to consult her parchments. As Albus retreated to his
seat, grinning and accepting high-fives from some of his friends, Curry
looked directly at James. "And now, also reading for the role of Treus, the
elder Potter, James. Second-year, Gryffindor. Whenever you are ready, Mr.
Potter, the stage is all yours."
James felt stuck to his seat. He forced himself to stand, and then sidled
past Rose and Ralph. By the time he got to the stage, his mind was a
complete blank. He'd memorized the audition lines, but now, distracted by
Albus' surprise performance, he couldn't even think of the first word. He
glanced over at the committee table and grinned sheepishly. Professor Curry
nodded encouragement. Tabitha was smiling smugly, obviously enjoying
James' discomfort. A spark of anger flared in James as he looked at that
grin, and with that anger, he remembered the first two words of his lines.
"Foul Donovan," James said, turning to look out at the gallery. His
eyes met Albus', and his anger increased. It smoldered in his words as he
delivered them through partially gritted teeth. "Thou trait'rous malcontent!
Had been there room amongst my thoughts for more than Eros' spell and
vanity, I might have seen thy wicked plot afoot…" As the words came,
James allowed his own resentment to fuel them. His voice rose, and he even

allowed himself to look askance at Tabitha. He was grimly pleased to see
she was no longer smiling. "Wizards and men, forth draw ye wands and
wits," James said, as if relishing the idea of a fight. "To fight the violent
seas this night, that by the morn we'll hold our win, or lie in beds of ocean
sand: our beaten glory's shrine!"
Rose erupted into applause. Ralph and a few others joined her, but they
were quickly quelled by a warning look from Professor Curry.
"Very impassioned, I must say, Mr. Potter," Curry said appreciatively.
"I'm not sure where you found your motivation, but I daresay it was quite
effective. Ahem. You may take your seat. Next up, we have Miss Ashley
Doone, second-year, Gryffindor, reading for the part of the Marsh Hag.
Miss Doone, you have the stage."
Ashley approached the stage in character, hunched over and lurching.
She reached the stage, paused, and then spun around, shrieking hoarsely
and hooking her fingers into claws. James, seating himself rather
triumphantly in the front row, had to suppress a grin.
"That was spectacular," Rose whispered into his ear. "I wouldn't have
thought you had it in you!"
"You were the one who told me I should try out for the part," James
whispered back.
"Yeah, well, I was just being polite," Rose admitted. "But I'm glad I
did. That was really amazing. I had goosebumps."
Twenty minutes later, the assembly filed out of the Muggle Studies
classroom. James followed Rose and Ralph into the corridor and stopped,
his eyes wide.
"Don't act so surprised," Rose said, clapping him on the shoulder. "You
were brilliant. You deserve the part."
"But I'm not an actor," James said, looking at her a bit wildly.

"It's a bit late to worry about that little detail," Ralph grinned.
Albus shouldered through the crowd and approached his brother.
"Yeah, well, I didn't really want to be up on stage anyway," he said,
spreading his arms. "Have fun making lovey eyes at Josephina."
"Don't remind me," Rose said emphatically. "I can't believe they chose
her over Petra."
"I thought she did pretty well," Ralph commented, looking up at the
ceiling.
"You think she looked pretty well, that's all," Rose replied, shaking her
head. "I can see right through you, Ralph Deedle."
"That's not true," Ralph said defensively. "Well, I mean, it is true, but
that's not why I think she deserves the part."
Tabitha stepped out of the classroom and spied Albus. She smiled and
walked over toward the group. "Congratulations, James. Inspiring
performance. It's good to see you and Albus aren't too competitive about
such things."
"Get stuffed, Corsica," James said, turning away. "Don't try to act
happy that we aren't at each other's throats."
Tabitha looked mournfully at James, but Albus' face darkened. "What
the bloody hell is wrong with you, James? You act like Tabitha has it in for
us. I'll bet you don't even know that she voted for you to get the part! And I
agreed with her! So why don't you just back off a little, eh?"
James wheeled on his brother, but another voice called out before he
could respond.
"Tabitha didn't vote for me, but I still got the part," Josephina said. She
smiled at Tabitha from where she stood, surrounded by a gaggle of exulting

Ravenclaw girls. "Score one for 'full frontal lobotomy', score zero for
Tabitha's 'professional interpretation'."
The girls giggled as Josephina batted her eyes, and then turned to walk
away. Tabitha seemed as unruffled as always, but she'd also forgotten about
James. She swept into the throng without looking back, apparently
following Josephina and her entourage. Albus threw a rankled look at
James and stalked away as well.
"I'm going to go find Petra," Rose said, shaking her head in disgust.
"She's sure to be disappointed about losing the part. I'll see the two of you
in the gym after dinner. Don't forget."
"We won't," Ralph replied, annoyed.
"For the last half an hour, I'd completely forgotten about that dratted
club meeting," James mourned, turning to follow the rest of the departing
students toward dinner in the Great Hall.
"Don't worry about it," Ralph said happily. "What's a little Defence
Club meeting to the great Treus, Conqueror of the Caspian Sea?"

9. THE LADY OF THE LAKE
James sat with Graham and Hugo at dinner, letting most of the
conversation drift over him as he concentrated on how best to manage the
Defence Club meeting. Rose had eaten quickly and gone ahead to make
sure the gym was ready for them, and Ralph was busy collecting the names
of everyone who'd expressed interest in being involved. The list had grown
rather long, and James' trepidation about the class had grown with it. Even
though he was sharing responsibility for the class with Ralph and Rose, he
couldn't help feeling that the club members would look to him as the
symbolic leader of the troop. Finally, having barely eaten, James left the
table. It wouldn't hurt for him to get to the gym a little early as well, and it
would probably be comforting to be around Rose anyway. She seemed
positively casual about the entire affair. James suspected that her Weasley
heritage rather enjoyed the giddy uncertainty and potential for disaster.
As he left the Great Hall, James felt a nagging, anonymous worry. It
was as if he was forgetting something important, but he couldn't identify

what it might be. Even as he moved through the halls and corridors, there
was a sense of anxious anticipation in the air. Students moved in groups,
obviously engrossed in spirited conversation, awaiting the evening's events.
James sighed nervously and turned the corner toward the gym.
"There you are," Rose said, as if she'd expected James hours ago. "The
gym is almost ready. There are already people waiting outside in the hall.
We just need to roll up the floor pads and wheel in one of the chalkboards."
"Why do we need a chalkboard?" James asked.
Rose gave him an impatient glance. "So we can write down the spells
and hexes we practice. It'll be a lot easier for people to concentrate if they
don't have to memorize the incantations on the spot. There's a chalkboard
on casters over in the Charms classroom, next hall over. Go and wheel it in
here and we'll be ready to get started."
Annoyed at being ordered around but glad of the distraction, James
turned around and left the gym. Sure enough, students were gathering in the
hall outside. They leaned against the wall and sat on the floor in loose
groups, all of them looking up as James came out.
"We'll, er, start in just a few minutes," James said, trying to put some
authority into his voice. Nearby, Cameron Creevey grinned and waved. A
gaggle of first-years stood with him, their eyes wide and excited. James
blinked at the gathering students. There was a good number of them,
although not as many as he'd expected. He should have been relieved, but
he wasn't. That nagging worry crept over him again. What was he
forgetting?
James worked his way around to the next corridor, which was darker
and completely deserted. He got to the Charms classroom and found it
unlocked. The chalkboard stood on a wooden frame in the corner. Tiny
metal wheels were attached to the bottom. James grabbed the end of the
frame and began to pull, but the wheels were rusty. They squealed and
dragged on the floor.

From the doorway, a voice asked, "Do you require some assistance,
Mr. Potter?"
James spun as if he'd been caught doing something illegal. Merlin
stood in the doorway, almost completely blocking it. His form was very
shadowy in the dim room.
"I'm—" James began, surprised that he felt so nervous. After all, they
had permission to hold the club meeting, didn't they? And yet he felt a
strong reluctance to tell the Headmaster what he was doing. "I'm just trying
to move the chalkboard. We, er, wanted to borrow it. To make some notes."
Merlin nodded inscrutably. "How are preparations for your defensive
techniques club coming along, James?"
James' heart quickened. "Uh… good. Fine. We've been pretty busy,
you know. But… good."
"Would you like some assistance with that?" Merlin asked in his low,
rumbling voice. "I'd be happy to help you relocate it to wherever you wish.
If anyone wondered what you were up to, I could vouch for your
'borrowing' it."
"No, thanks," James said quickly, letting go of the chalkboard.
"Actually, we probably don't really need it. It was just an idea, but it's not
worth the trouble. Really."
Merlin didn't move for a long moment. Finally, he seemed to relax and
smile. "As you wish, James."
The big man turned to leave, and James felt a huge, strange sense of
relief as Merlin's gaze left him. The club would just have to do without the
chalkboard, James determined. He crossed the darkened classroom and was
nearly to the door when Merlin turned back, his eyes glittering in the dark
corridor.

"Honestly, I didn't expect you to be inside tonight, James," the big
wizard said curiously.
James didn't quite know how to respond. "Er… no? Where did you
expect me to be?"
"Tonight is rather an important night for many students. I understand
that even those who do not intend to participate rather enjoy watching the
proceedings. They like to get a sense of how the season might progress."
A sudden sinking sensation filled James. His cheeks went cold. "Oh
no…," he said, widening his eyes. "It's tonight! That's why there were fewer
people than I expected in the hall! It's already started!"
"Is it possible that you forgot?" Merlin said, a strange smile creeping
over his face. "I assumed you were quite the fan of Quidditch. If you hurry,
I expect you may still see the end of the try-outs."
James barely heard him. He turned on his heels and bolted along the
corridor, cursing his forgetfulness. If he'd not been so obsessed with
worrying about the stupid Defence Club, he'd have known that the first
meeting conflicted with Quidditch try-outs. Neither Rose nor Ralph was
trying out for the teams, so they wouldn't even have considered the conflict.
James had been practicing all summer for the opportunity to be on the
Gryffindor House team. He desperately wanted to make up for his
devastating performance at last year's try-outs. Also, Albus was out there
even now, trying out for the Slytherin team on Tabitha Corsica's cursed
broomstick. James felt an obsessive impulse to be there when that
happened, but he truthfully didn't know if it was because he wanted to
protect Albus or sabotage him.
James pounded up the steps, calling out the password to the common
room. The Fat Lady scolded him for broadcasting the password to the entire
hall, but James barely heard her, shimmying through the portrait hole the
moment the painting began to swing open. James grabbed his broom from
beneath his bed, took the stairs two at a time down to the common room,

and felt another stab of panic as he crossed the empty room. Everyone was
already down at the pitch, cheering, watching the try-outs, supporting the
team. James was supposed to be there!
The Fat Lady was still scolding James as he pushed through the
portrait hole and flung himself down the stairs. How could he have
forgotten? If he thought it was possible, he'd almost believe that Tabitha
Corsica had somehow arranged for him to be absent, simply so he couldn't
interfere with Albus' try-out. At the same time, a distant part of him worried
that he was missing the first Defence Club meeting. Rose would probably
realize where he'd gone as soon as she noticed his absence, but still, it
would be a disappointment and a setback. Had Merlin appeared at that exact
moment just to sabotage the first Defence Club meeting? After all, the
Headmaster certainly had uncanny ways of knowing what was happening
around the school. Merlin would know how important Quidditch was to
James. Was it possible that he had bewitched James to forget the try-outs,
just so he could strategically remind him at the last minute, thus keeping
him from the club meeting?
Frustrated and annoyed, James burst out of the castle's main entrance
and darted across the courtyard. As he turned toward the Quidditch pitch,
he heard the maddening sound of cheers and whistles. It was nearly dark,
but James could make out the shapes of the Quidditch players circling over
the pitch, their cloaks snapping gaily in the wind. It was too late, but James
couldn't bring himself to turn back. He cursed his luck again. How could he
have forgotten Quidditch try-outs? He wouldn't have believed it was
possible. What would he tell his mum and dad? How would he live it down
with his housemates? Certainly, Scorpius Malfoy would make the most of
it. I see, Potter, he'd say, you forgot the try-outs, did you? Strange. And we
were all so looking forward to being amazed and impressed by your
performance. Perhaps you'll remember next year.
The crowd was departing even as James arrived at the pitch. He found
himself wading upstream through the throng, not really knowing what he
was looking for but refusing to give up. He considered getting onto his
broom and simply flying out over the pitch, but he was reluctant to draw too
much attention to himself. He finally shouldered onto the grass of the pitch

and spied the Gryffindor Quidditch Captain, Devindar Das, collecting the
house brooms.
"Dev!" James called, panting. "Tell me it isn't too late!"
Devindar stopped and looked back. "Where were you, James? It's all
over. I was looking forward to seeing what you could do this year."
"I completely forgot… somehow…," James admitted desperately. "Let
me go anyway! I'm ready!"
Devindar shook his head. "I can't, James. All the positions are filled
already. Honestly, we had a pretty strong lineup going in. We'll need you
more next year, once Hugo and Tara graduate."
James was speechless. He stood on the spot, breathing hard from his
sprint out to the pitch. He glared helplessly around at the departing students
and players. Louis Weasley was approaching from the Hufflepuff
grandstand.
"What happened to you, James?" Louis called. "Albus was looking for
you after the Slytherin tryouts."
James ran a hand through his hair in frustration. "I don't even want to
talk about it. How did Albus do?"
"Oh, he was totally brilliant," Louis replied enthusiastically. "Victoire
says he was the best first-year try-out she's ever seen. I bet he was the best
since your dad, even! He's going to be Slytherin's Seeker. It's perfect, in a
way, don't you think? I mean, your dad was Seeker for Gryffindor his first
—"
"Yeah, yeah, I get it Louis," James interrupted sourly. "Is he gone
already?"
"Yeah, the whole team headed back together. Albus said to tell you to

come down with Ralph if you can. He's pretty excited about it. He was
going to write your mum and dad first thing. They'll be totally proud, I bet."
"Yeah," James muttered, dragging his broom and heading back off the
pitch. "That's great. See you around, Louis."

"I'm really sorry, James," Rose said as they climbed the stairs to the
common room. "It never even occurred to me to check. And Ralph's really
not much of a Quidditch fan, so he wouldn't have even noticed. I figured it
out right away and assumed you'd rushed out to the pitch. So, no luck
then?"
"It was a complete bust," James grumbled. "I missed the whole thing.
On top of it all, Slytherin's tryouts were tonight, too, and it sounds like Al
flew rings around everybody. He's going to be Slytherin's Seeker."
"Oh," Rose replied brightly. "Well, that's really cool, isn't it? He'll look
very dashing in his green cloak and pads. I bet your mum and dad will be
very pleased."
"I really wish people would stop saying that," James said darkly.
"I don't blame you for being angry that you missed the try-outs, James, but
being jealous of Albus—"
"I'm not jealous, Rose!" James exclaimed. "The whole thing is a trick!
It has to be! The Slytherins are just setting him up!"
"And why would they do that?" Rose asked simply. "If they were as

black-hearted as you say, wouldn't they be trying to bury him rather than
prop him up?"
"They don't work that way anymore. They're all sneaky and two-faced
now. Tabitha's Fang and Talons club is just this year's version of the
Progressive Element. They were the ones who set up the debate where she
said that my dad was a liar and a fraud. They actually believe that
Voldemort was a great fellow and that people like our parents have lied
about him all these years."
"Nobody really believes that silliness," Rose replied. "It's just popular
to rock the boat. Either way, Albus can handle himself. He's not a dummy."
James glowered. "He doesn't know Tabitha like I do."
"Well," Rose said, deliberately changing the subject, "Defence Club
went well. We had twenty-six people, which is really good considering
Quidditch try-outs were tonight. Mostly, we just talked about club goals and
established the rules. I'll fill you in on that later. Then we ran through some
fundamental Disarming Spells, just so everybody was starting on the same
page."
"Who led the class? You?" James asked as they approached the portrait
of the Fat Lady. "I can't imagine Ralph let you talk him into showing
anyone how to perform Expelliarmus spells. He doesn't much trust his own
wand with that kind of thing even though he's better than he used to be."
"No," Rose answered slowly. "Ralph didn't do it. And neither did I. It
went very well though."
Rose said the password and the portrait swung open. The Fat Lady
glared at James, remembering his conduct earlier in the evening. The sound
of raucous laughter and music poured through the portrait hole.
"Then who did you get?" James asked, suddenly suspicious. He
followed Rose into the crowded room. Scorpius Malfoy lounged on the

couch near the fireplace. He glanced up and smiled crookedly as James and
Rose entered.
"Good of you to show up, Potter," he drawled. "I understand you found
a way to overlook two appointments at the same time, tonight. Not that we
missed you, exactly."
"Hush, Scorpius," Rose said, sitting down on the other end of the
couch. "We really should discuss plans for the next club meeting. I'd
appreciate it if you two could find a way to be civil to each other."
"You really did ask him to teach the class?" James said, pointing at
Malfoy. "You've got to be kidding!"
Malfoy produced his glasses from a pocket and put them on. "This
really isn't your night, is it, Potter? Cheer up. You should consider yourself
lucky that I'm not interested in being on the Quidditch team; otherwise, I
wouldn't have been available."
"Look, both of you," Rose interjected before James could reply, "we
have more important matters to discuss than how much you two annoy each
other. If you haven't noticed, this Defence Club serves a more important
purpose than just giving us something to do one night a week."
"How much did you tell him?" James demanded. "If you haven't
noticed, his family is all Death Eaters! You might want to think twice about
trusting him."
"Technically, my father was never actually inducted. I thought you
knew that," Scorpius said, meeting James' eye. "But if you mean did she tell
me about her suspicions about the Headmaster, no, she didn't. I was already
well aware of them. As hard as this may be for you to believe, I'm on the
same side as you, Potter."
"Hah!" James spat. "That's where you're wrong! I don't agree with
either of you about Merlin. Even if there is some evil plot in the works, I'd

suspect your family was involved before I'd go pointing fingers at Merlin.
He saved this school last year!"
"We've discussed all of this, James," Rose said, motioning for James to
keep his voice down. "Scorpius doesn't approve of some of the things his
family has done in the past. That's part of the reason he's here in Gryffindor.
And you know what we saw in the Mirror. There's no question that we have
to be careful around the Headmaster. As of right now, the evidence is that
he's in league with—"
"The evidence is that you've been suspicious of him from the
beginning," James exclaimed. "But you're wrong. You're both wrong, and
I'm going to prove it."
Scorpius narrowed his eyes at James. "Well, I do hope you pull that
off. I suspect a lot of us would take some comfort in that proof. Until then,
however…," Scorpius pointed his wand lazily at the chair next to the couch,
"perhaps it would be a good idea to do as Rose says. We have a Defence
Club to prepare. And she seems very stubborn about you and Ralph Deedle
being a part of it. Still, if sitting in the same room with a Malfoy is too
much for you, it's fine by me if you go elsewhere. There's a bed upstairs
with your name on it."
James ground his teeth. Nothing had gone right this entire evening.
And now he couldn't see any choice but to sit down and plan what Scorpius
Malfoy was going to teach them at the next Defence Club meeting. It was
singularly humiliating. He almost couldn't bring himself to do it. He still
had his broom with him, reminding him of his second failure to make the
Quidditch team. All he wanted to do was go back upstairs, stuff it back
under his bed, and try to forget the whole mess. But Rose was looking at
him pleadingly, obviously hoping that James would be able to overcome his
innate dislike of the pale boy long enough to give the Defence Club a
chance to work.
Sighing resignedly, James propped his broom by the fireplace and
threw himself onto the chair. "Fine," he said. "What do we need to do
next?"

Rose clapped her hands excitedly. "Thank you, James! I knew I could
trust you. Scorpius really is a pretty good teacher, but it's hard for some of
the Gryffindors to listen to him. There's still a lot of long-term prejudice
against a Malfoy in Gryffindor, and having him teach the class just makes
matters worse. Still, if you're there, it should really help give Scorpius the
credibility he needs…"
"Hey, you guys expecting somebody?" Graham said as he entered the
room. "Only, I found this bloke hanging around outside the portrait hole. He
says you invited him, Rose."
Ralph grinned sheepishly as Rose jumped up. "Sorry, Ralph. I hadn't
gotten around to telling James about Scorpius, and then… Well, anyway,
we're all here, so let's get started!"
Scorpius looked annoyed as Ralph crammed onto the couch between
him and Rose. The big boy kicked his shoes off and propped his feet on the
overstuffed footstool. "Good club tonight. Scorpius here may be a skinny
bloke, but he knows a few tricks. Some of you Gryffindors may have a bit
of an attitude problem about him, but I need all the help I can get," Ralph
said breezily. "Oh, and James?"
James glanced up at Ralph, arching an eyebrow.
Ralph smiled sheepishly. "Albus says to tell you you'll be better as
Treus than he'll be as Slytherin Seeker. He was hoping he'd see you tonight.
Even Tabitha asked if you were going to come down."
James didn't know what to say. After a moment, Scorpius broke the
tension. "This is all very touching," he said dryly, "but I recognize Slytherin
smooth-talking when I hear it. I'm a bit of an expert on the subject, as James
has already pointed out. Can we discuss Defence Club now?"
The four of them talked for the next hour. James grew grudgingly
confident that Scorpius may indeed be able to teach them some decent
defensive spells. It turned out that he had, in fact, been tutored from an

early age by his grandfather, Lucius Malfoy, who was currently in seclusion
and not speaking to the family. Scorpius admitted that he hadn't seen his
grandfather for a few years, ever since he and Scorpius' dad had had a rather
serious row.
The fire had burned down to glowing coals and the four students were
beginning to pack up for the night when Deirdre Finnigan, one of Cameron
Creevey's first-year friends, barreled into the common room, panting and
red-faced. She glanced wildly around the room, and then pressed through
the crowd, heading directly for a rear corner.
"What's with her?" Scorpius muttered.
Rose said, "She's heading for Petra's table."
The entire room hushed as the significance of Deirdre's announcement
became known. "It's true!" she was saying. "I saw them leading her to the
hospital wing! She could barely stand up!"
Petra simply looked at Deirdre, her mouth slightly open.
"Who?" Hugo called from across the room. "What happened?"
"Josephina Bartlett!" Deirdre cried breathlessly, turning to face the
room. "She ate a cursed peppermint and it struck her with a terrible fear of
heights! They found her hugging the floor of the balcony outside the
Ravenclaw common room. She couldn't even stand up! Her friends said the
peppermint had come in a box of chocolates from a secret admirer, but it
was obviously from some enemy instead. Madam Curio says she'll be a
little better by morning, but the effects won't completely wear off for
months!"
"A fear-of-heights peppermint?" Graham said, screwing up his face.
"Does Weasleys' make those?"
"I don't think so," Sabrina said. "That sounds like a custom curse."

Damien narrowed his eyes. "One guess who Josephina's 'secret
admirer' is. I heard all about how she and Corsica went at it during the
audition."
"You're all missing the point," Deirdre said, nearly bouncing.
"Josephina's been cursed with a fear of heights! She'll hardly be able to
climb a curb for months!"
Sabrina's eyes widened. "She can't climb onto the stage in the
amphitheater! If she can't get onto the stage…"
"She can't play the part of Astra," Damien finished, grinning. "As
much as I hate to see anyone benefit from another's misfortune, let me be
the first to congratulate our good friend Petra… the new and improved
Astra de Beaugois!"
Petra looked around, an expression of surprise and disbelief on her
face. "Well, I wouldn't have wanted to get the role this way," she said. "But
I suppose I wouldn't turn it down either."
Sabrina whooped happily. A cheer arose from the gathered students
and James saw Petra smile for the first time in weeks. Suddenly, he
remembered that he was playing the part of Treus, Astra's younger love
interest. His face reddened considerably as he looked across the room at
Petra. He noticed Rose was smiling knowingly at him.
"What?" he said, patting his cheeks. "I'm hot. I'm sitting right next to
the fireplace."
"Mm-hmm," Rose grinned, nodding. "Oh, this is going to be so much
fun, cousin. I expect you'd better start practicing up. Petra's going to have
pretty high expectations for 'the kiss of true and everlasting love'."

Over the next week, autumn finally descended in full, putting a brisk
chill into the air and painting the trees with vibrant oranges, reds, and
yellows. Hagrid took his Care of Magical Creatures class into their winter
classroom: a huge, ancient barn with stone walls and thick, cobwebbed
rafters. There, he'd assembled an impressive array of fantastic creatures, all
arranged in order of size. Along the entrance wall was a range of cages and
pens, out of which emanated the sounds of amiable snufflings, grunts,
squeals, and barks. On the other side of the dirt floor was a line of stables,
each one larger than the last. The nearest one sheltered a hippogriff whose
name, according to the sign painted on the gate, was Flintflank. The
creature snapped its beak at the nearby cages, apparently hungry for their
contents. The larger stables had thick doors, preventing any peek at their
occupants. The last two doors were plated with iron and barred with huge
crossbeams. They were easily twenty feet tall. Occasionally, an unsettlingly
resonant growl or burst of roar would shake the barn.
James shrugged out of his cloak as he walked through the great front
door, surprised at the warmth of the space despite the day's crisp chill.
"How's he heat a place like this?" Ralph asked, craning his head up at
the high, wooden ceiling. "It's right balmy in here."
The students filed into the barn, peering curiously into the cages or
tentatively approaching the hippogriff's stable. The great beast stamped its
foreleg and tossed its beaked head.
"Stay well back now," Hagrid called. "We'll meet old Flintflank a bit
later in the year. Until then, it's best if he sees yeh from across the room

instead of right in front of 'im. Let's start the season off by gettin' t'know
some of the smaller beasts here in the cages an' such."
Hagrid led the class over to the smaller cages lining the wall. He
fiddled with one of the locks as he spoke. "We've been right lucky over the
years to come across so many examples of the magical world's most
unusual creatures. A former student o' mine has become something of an
expert on beast tracking, and she brings me any creatures she finds that've
been injured or fallen sick. I do my best to nurse 'em back to health, but a
few of 'em never gets to the point of being able to survive in the wild again.
I give 'em the best home I can, o' course. The end result is that we've
become rather well-known around the magical world for our menagerie,"
Hagrid turned, cradling a small lump of breathing brown fur in his arm.
"Why, experts come from the world over to meet and study our little family.
Isn't that right, Punkin?"
Ralph leaned toward James and whispered, "I talked to Rose this
morning. She thinks she's found out something important about Merlin."
James whispered back, "Whatever it is, I don't want to hear it. She's
always digging up new dirt from some old legend or crusty history book.
We know most of that stuff's not true."
"I don't know it's not true," Ralph murmured, "I just know he doesn't
quite seem like that anymore. Either way, she says you'll want to hear it. It
explains a little bit of where all the stories came from about how he didn't
love the Muggle world. She says it 'puts it all in context', whatever that
means."
James pressed his lips together doubtfully. He'd told Rose and Scorpius
that he intended to prove Merlin wasn't involved in the conspiracy they'd
witnessed in the Mirror, but he hadn't yet done it. In fact, the idea of doing
so frightened him quite a lot. It wasn't that he didn't have a plan. He did,
and it was quite simple. It would require some bravery and the help of
Cedric's ghost, and it could get him into quite a lot of trouble if he was
caught, but none of those things were what worried him. He felt a strange,
pressing reluctance to go ahead with it, mostly because he was secretly

afraid of what he might discover. If he was right, then Merlin wasn't
involved, and James could prove it to Rose and everyone else. But what if
he was wrong? Despite his words to the contrary, James was worried about
it. What if he went through with his plan and found that the Headmaster
was, in fact, in league with the former Death Eaters and that horrible,
smoky entity? Worse, what if the entity was the thing the cave skeleton,
Farrigan, had talked about: the Gatekeeper, which Merlin was supposedly
responsible for bringing into the world? The Headmaster had been acting
rather secretive and suspicious. He'd forbidden James from telling anyone
what the skeleton of Farrigan had said, and that was worrisome in itself. If
what the skeleton had said wasn't true, why would Merlin care if James told
anyone?
James shook his head. Surely, Merlin had his reasons. Merlin had to be
good. He'd come back to help when the school had been threatened by the
Muggle reporter, hadn't he? And all because James had asked him.
And that, James realized with a sinking coldness, was why he couldn't
face the idea that Merlin might not be who he claimed he was. Because
James was responsible, twice over, for bringing the great wizard here: first,
by being manipulated by Madame Delacroix into facilitating Merlin's return
to the present day, and second, by sending a message of help to Merlin via
the tree sprites, with whom Merlin was able to commune. It had even been
James' advice that led his father and uncle to campaign for Merlin to
become the new school Headmaster. If Merlin was involved in something
evil, then it was on James' head. He would be ultimately responsible for
whatever happened. Recognizing that, James knew that he had to find out
what Merlin's intentions really were, no matter what. And if, by some
horrible chance, Merlin was in league with evil, then it was up to James to
foil him, no matter what it took.
"Now then," Hagrid was saying, beaming out over the students, "who
wants to come up an' give me a hand feeding li'l Punkin the Tripthroat?"
Trenton Bloch raised his hand and Hagrid beckoned him forward.
"Here yeh go, Mr. Bloch. Just dangle this wee bit of Lempweed in the air,
but not too close. Hold it up an' let me bring Punkin toward yeh."

Trenton seemed annoyed at the caution Hagrid was taking with the
little ball of panting fur. It looked rather like a kitten, but with no apparent
head, tail, or limbs. "What's it going to do, Hagrid?" Trenton asked, holding
up the rubbery bit of plant. "Purr me to death?"
Trenton's last word turned into a little shriek of surprise as something
huge and furry lunged up from the ball in Hagrid's arms. It reared a
slobbering, toothless mouth and clamped down on Trenton's entire hand.
With a loud slurping sound, it sucked the bit of Lempweed out of Trenton's
hand and retreated, disappearing into the tiny, panting ball of fur in Hagrid's
arms. Trenton yanked his hand back, shaking it and shuddering visibly.
"Nicely done, Mr. Bloch," Hagrid cried, laughing. "Punkin likes yeh!
Or else she thinks you're a frog with a bit more Lempweed on yer backside.
Normally, Tripthroats live in the marsh where they suck the weed off the
little amphibious creatures an' then spit 'em back out. None too pleasant for
the frogs, but totally harmless."
Trenton stared at his hand, which was coated with a viscous green goo.
He looked helplessly at Hagrid.
"Yeh might want to go wash that off, Mr. Bloch. Frogskin is immune
to the Tripthroat's digestive juices, but yeh might get a bit itchy if yeh leave
it there. There's a pump and basin over by the big stables. That's a lad."
Hagrid placed Punkin back in her cage and locked it. He was just
explaining the lifespan of the Tripthroat when a very large roar rumbled the
building's foundation. James looked toward the sound of the roar, his eyes
wide and his heart suddenly pounding. Trenton was quickly backing away
from the huge, ironframed door, his hands still dripping water from the
basin.
"Oh, she caught yer scent, Mr. Bloch! Silly me, I forgot, she loves a
good Tripthroat snack. Stand aside now, that's right. She's about to blow!"
Suddenly, an enormous noise filled the barn. To James, it sounded

something like a freight train mixed with a cyclone. The barn heated
appreciably and the center of the iron door began to glow a dull red.
"My apologies, Mr. Bloch," Hagrid said. "Ol' Norberta doesn't get
many Tripthroats these days, but she can smell when they're nearby. I
should've warned yeh."
"So that's how he keeps the barn heated," Ralph said nervously, his
eyes wide. "He keeps a dragon! A real, live dragon!"
"That's not just any dragon," James said, grinning, "that's like an old
family friend. Uncle Charlie's been keeping tabs on her for years. She
wounded a wing a few years back and now she can't fly. Not being able to
fly is a death sentence in the dragon world. They eat their own, you know."
"She's really just a great softie," Hagrid said affectionately. "I've
known 'er since she was a hatchling. Still, it doesn't do to stand too near her
doors when she's in a flaming mood. We'll take her out this winter, give her
a little exercise. She likes a good romp in the snow, does the old dear."
"Excellent!" Ashley Doone said from behind James. "Maybe Trenton
will volunteer to feed her as well! Slytherins and dragons are supposed to
have quite the rapport."
"No chance," Trenton said as he rejoined the students, his face flushed
and angry. "I wonder if my parents know that this great oaf is keeping a
dragon on school grounds. He's been a maniac for years, but this is
completely daft."
"Shut up, Trenton," James said amiably. "Norberta's safe. Safer than
you with a Tripthroat at least."
"We'll see about that," Trenton muttered darkly.
James spent most of Muggle Studies in the rather uncomfortable
process of being measured for his Treus costume. Gennifer Tellus, in charge

of the costume shop, performed the duties herself, a quill behind her ear and
a couple of pins clenched between her lips.
"Stand still," she said around the pins. "You're not letting me get a
good inseam measurement. You want your pantaloons to be saggy?"
"It tickles!" James replied, and then asked suspiciously, "What are
pantaloons?"
"Don't ask me to explain them. It's best if you don't think about it. Just
know that you're getting off easy compared to what Petra has to wear."
James wanted to ask but decided not to. He hadn't spoken to Petra
since Josephina's peppermint incident. He was a little giddy and excited
about the idea of playing Treus to Petra's Astra, but he was trying very hard
not to let on.
Gennifer pulled her measuring tape around James' waist. "Have you
read the whole script yet?" she asked.
"No," James admitted. "I know the story a little though. Boy falls for
girl. Older bloke falls for the same girl. Older bloke sends boy off on a
suicide mission to get rid of him. Boy comes back and they duel.
Everybody lives happily ever after. The end."
Gennifer glanced at James sardonically. "I think you'd better read the
script," she said around her pins.
"I will," James said, annoyed. "I have to know my lines, don't I?"
"Yes, but you should also know that they don't 'live happily ever after'.
The Triumvirate is a tragedy, you dolt."
James looked at himself in the nearby mirror. "So what's that mean?"
"Well," Gennifer mumbled, "generally, it means everybody ends up
dead."

As James left Muggle Studies, Rose caught up to him.
"Did Ralph tell you what I found out last night?" she asked in a low
voice.
"He said you found out why some people thought Merlin would hate
Muggles," James replied, "but he didn't give me any details."
"You'll be interested in this," Rose said earnestly. "Did you ever hear
of the Lady of the Lake?"
James thought for a moment. It sounded vaguely familiar, but he
couldn't place it. He shrugged and shook his head.
"Well, according to all the legends, she was supposed to have been
Merlin's downfall. Most of the stories portray her as a nymph or a dryad or
a sprite, but they're mostly really fanciful and probably just exaggerations
of the truth. Professor Revalvier talked about it last Wizlit, remember? She
said that if the legends had been true, Merlin obviously wouldn't be here as
Headmaster."
"Yeah," James said, recalling the class. "She said that the stories make
the Lady of the Lake out to be a sort of magical creature pretending to be all
innocent and stuff. She gets Merlin to fall for her, and then, when he teaches
her everything he knows, she traps him with his own magic. Obviously, it's
just stories. Probably, it was all just a way to explain Merlin's
disappearance. We know the truth though, like Revalvier said."
"We know a bit more of the truth now," Rose said enigmatically. "The
Lady of the Lake wasn't made-up, but she wasn't what the legends make her
out to be. She was a Muggle, and she was almost Merlin's wife."
"What?" James said, stopping in the hall. "Where'd you get that?"
"The Book of Austramaddux's Histories," Rose said, raising her
eyebrows. "Same book where Zane found the account of Merlin's

Disapparition last year. Morgan Patonia let me borrow it from the
Ravenclaw library. Austramaddux knew Merlin better than almost anyone,
although it seems to me that Merlin didn't like him very much."
"Merlin sure didn't waste any time on him when he Reapparated,"
James said, nodding. "It was Austramaddux's ghost who was supposed to
watch for the time to be right for Merlin's return. He was bound to the job
forever. I got the impression that Merlin thought Austramaddux had hurried
his return just to finish his duties. It didn't go very well for him after that."
"What'd Merlin do?" Rose asked eagerly. "How do you punish a
ghost?"
James shook his head. "Beats me, but Austramaddux was terrified of
whatever it was. He screamed like a banshee, but Merlin just sort of…
popped him."
"Very creepy," Rose said, thinking.
"Yeah, whatever. It's old news now. What's the story with the Lady of
the Lake?"
"Well, according to Austramaddux, she was a Muggle peasant named
Judith. She lived on a tiny farm with a little spring lake on it. That's where
her name came from. The farm had been managed by Judith and her mother
until her mother died. The lord of the fiefdom was a guy named Hadyn. He
planned to banish Judith from the farm because she couldn't manage it on
her own, but Merlin protected her. He sent away the brutes who'd come to
throw her out. Apparently, he gave them donkey ears and told them if they
came back he'd finish the job."
"See?" James said. "That doesn't sound like the actions of a wizard
who hates Muggles. He was helping her, wasn't he?"
"Yes, but only because he loved her. The book says that Judith was
really beautiful, and Merlin was completely smitten by her. Austramaddux

actually said that Merlin was 'under her spell'. Pretty strong words for a
wizard to use when describing a Muggle woman."
"So what happened?" James asked. "We know they didn't end up
together for some reason. Maybe she double-crossed him. That could be
where the legends get the story about her trapping him somehow."
Rose shook her head, her eyes sparkling. "No! Austramaddux thinks
she loved him too! It was enough to get Merlin to cease his dealings with
the Muggle kingdoms. He stopped hiring himself out as a magical
mercenary and abandoned his throne as the Mediator between the Muggle
and magical realms. Loads of people were mad about it, and lots of others
were eager to step into Merlin's place. Meanwhile, Merlin safeguarded the
farm that Judith lived on. He made really thick briars and thorns grow up all
around the perimeter, keeping out Hadyn's brutes. Merlin even paid for the
property, ten times what the farm was worth. And then, just to be safe, he
started teaching Judith some magic."
"You can't just teach a Muggle magic, Rose," James interrupted.
"You're either born with it or not."
Rose shook her head. "Merlin's magic is different, isn't it? He gets it as
much from nature as he does from his wizarding heritage. He couldn't teach
her how to find the magic inside her because there wasn't any there. Judith
had no witch in her blood. But he could teach her how to use the magic in
nature. A little, at least. She just needed to know enough to be able to
protect herself, so Merlin taught her how to alter her appearance. That way,
she could go to the markets unnoticed. She had to, because Hadyn had put a
price on her capture. Things seemed to be working just fine for them, and it
looked like Merlin was going to marry her. But then… well, it gets really
awful."
"What?" James insisted, enthralled by the story.
"Well, they caught her, of course," Rose said breathlessly. "She got
careless. The magical disguise was perfect. Nobody knew who she was at
the markets in the fiefdom. But someone saw her use a little of Merlin's

magic. She fixed a broken wheel on a boy's cart, just by holding the pieces
together and saying an incantation Merlin had taught her. The wood knitted
back together, fixing the wheel, but someone saw it happen. They told the
fiefdom brutes, who were always hanging around the market. They
captured Judith and took her to Hadyn in his castle."
"I bet Merlin wanted to kill them all," James said meaningfully. "I
mean, she was just trying to help. What'd he do?"
"He didn't know where she was at first, but he tracked her down. He's
apparently very good at that, being able to talk to the birds and creatures
and trees. Hadyn knew Merlin would show up. He told the guards to let
Merlin through, right into the lord's hall. Merlin didn't even waste time on
the guards, though. He just put them all to sleep and stalked right up to
Hadyn, demanding the release of Judith. Hadyn was all oily and slick. He
told Merlin he had every intention of giving her back, but only if Merlin
agreed to return the farm, remove the thorn hedge, and as a tribute of
respect, double the fiefdom's lands."
James furrowed his brow. "Double the lands?"
"Everything was about land back then. The bigger a lord's fiefdom, the
wealthier he was. Hadyn's plan was to use Merlin to steal land from
neighboring fiefs. He also made Merlin promise to leave the fief forever
and bestow his protection over the castle, which included protection from
Merlin himself! Hadyn was really crafty and evil. He knew that as soon as
Merlin had Judith back, he'd probably destroy the castle and everyone in it.
But with Merlin's spell of protection, not only could the castle never be
overtaken, Merlin himself couldn't touch a single brick or harm a single hair
of anyone inside it."
"He didn't do it, did he?" James asked.
Rose nodded. "He did. He was that madly in love with Judith. He left
and went out into the neighboring fiefdoms. There is no record of how he
did it, but when he came back, he presented Hadyn with the deeds of
enough new land to double his fief. I shudder to think how Merlin got all

that land, but it had to have been scary. Lords didn't let go of land without a
fight."
James frowned thoughtfully. "So did Hadyn release Judith?"
"Well, that's where the story breaks down," Rose said uncomfortably.
"Austramaddux writes as if his readers already know the rest of the story.
I'd guess that whatever happened, it was legend in that part of the world for
a long time. Unfortunately, the legend got lost in all the myths and
exaggerations in the centuries since. Either way, it looks like it ended badly.
I mean, like Professor Revalvier said, Merlin's here with us now, but not the
Lady of the Lake. The important thing is, this could explain why people
always believed Merlin might have a grudge against the Muggle world. He
was trapped by that Muggle lord, Hadyn, humiliated by him, and wasn't
even able to have his revenge. To a wizard like Merlin, that's got to be
enough to brew up a case of serious hate."
"Yeah, you couldn't blame him for being really angry," James agreed,
"but that doesn't mean he'd hate the whole Muggle world. Just because there
was one evil Muggle prat, that's hardly reason to go to war against the lot of
them."
"Well, that's what some people believed," Rose said, shrugging. "But
Merlin himself never actually said so. Officially speaking, he never said
anything again. He was never again seen in public, and it's right after that
that Austramaddux talks about Merlinus 'leaving the society of men until
the time was ripe for him'. It's no wonder people have been suspicious all
these centuries."
"And still are today," James said pointedly.
"That doesn't mean I agree with everything people have said about
him," Rose replied quietly. "But it certainly makes one understand how
Merlin might have developed a bit of a serious grudge. Love makes people
do mad things."
James sighed. "I've got a plan, Rose," he admitted in a low voice. "I

wasn't sure I was going to go through with it, but I am now. I need to clear
Merlin's name if I can. I'm going to find out the truth about whether he is
involved with those people we saw, and that horrible, er, thing in the smoky
cloak."
Rose narrowed her eyes at James. "You know something about that
thing, don't you?" she asked. "You're hiding something. Does it have to do
with that weird pain you get in your forehead sometimes?"
"What?" James said, startled. "No! I… er, I don't feel that anymore."
"Right," Rose nodded. "You smacked your forehead and yelled in pain
that day outside the Headmaster's office because you suddenly remembered
the extra credit answer on your Arithmancy test."
James deflated. "Look, yeah, I still feel it sometimes. I don't know
where it's coming from. But it doesn't have anything to do with Merlin, all
right?"
"Scorpius says you're having bad dreams," Rose said, looking closely
at James.
"Bloody hell, Rose! What's he doing, staying up nights taking notes?"
"He says you've been talking in your sleep and getting all worked up.
He can't hear what you're saying, but it always seems to be the same. And
it's happening a couple of times a week."
James glared at Rose, and then looked away. "Yeah, so what? I hardly
ever even remember the dreams. And even when I do, they don't make any
sense. There's always a voice talking, and flashing blades, and the sound of
old machinery. Someone is walking and I'm following them, but I can't see
who it is. And then there's water and some weird faces. So what? It's just a
dream. It doesn't mean anything."
Rose rolled her eyes. "I know you well enough to know you don't
believe that."

James shook his head. "Look, I don't know what it's all about. Maybe
it does have something to do with the weird pain I get on my forehead
sometimes. Cedric… Cedric says he can actually see a scar there. He says it
glows green."
"No!" Rose exclaimed, as if she thought that was the coolest thing
she'd ever heard. She leaned in, studying James' forehead. "Can you see it
when you look in the mirror? Does it glow when you turn off the lights?"
"This isn't funny, Rose!" James said, backing away. "But at least it
means I'm not a nutter. If Cedric sees it, then it isn't in my head."
"Yeah," Rose agreed. "Technically, it's on your head."
James grimaced at his cousin. "But the point is that this has nothing to
do with how I intend to find out the truth about Merlin."
"How, James?" Rose asked seriously. "I mean, Ralph's right about one
thing: if Merlin is involved with that evil plot, he's one scary character to go
up against. He'd have no qualms about getting you out of the way. Let
Ralph and me help you, at least."
James shook his head. "I don't need help, Rose. Sorry. It'd just get you
two into trouble too if we got caught."
Rose had always been very practical. She nodded solemnly. "When are
you going to do it?"
James' face grew determined. "Tonight, if I can. If everything goes
right, we'll know the truth by tomorrow morning. Wish me luck."
"You'll need more than luck, you berk," Rose said. "I certainly hope
you know what you're doing."
James thought of the way Merlin had found him in the halls, both
when he'd been standing guard for the Gremlins and when he'd gone for the

rolling chalkboard. Merlin knew when things were going on around the
school, and he'd know what James was up to if James wasn't very careful.
"So do I, Rose," James agreed as he and his cousin walked down the
corridor toward the Great Hall, "so do I."

James had a simple plan. He'd talked Cedric's ghost into helping,
although it had been a close thing. Cedric didn't like going into the
Headmaster's office now that Merlin was occupying it, and there was some
sort of boundary that prevented ghosts from entering the Headmaster's
personal quarters. Still, Cedric could hover outside the windows and see
when the lights went off. Presumably, Merlin slept sometime. When the
lights in his quarters had been off for an hour, Cedric was to come and wake
James.
James went to bed that night certain that he wouldn't sleep a wink. He
was nervous about his plan, partly because he thought he might be caught
no matter how sneaky he was and partly because he was afraid of what he'd
discover if the plan succeeded. Every time he began to drift to sleep, he'd
imagine he was hearing Cedric coming to wake him. It was silly because
the ghost made no noise whatsoever unless he wanted to, so James would
never hear his approach. Still, every bump and creak caught James'
attention until, eventually, he drifted into a fitful sleep.
He had the dream again, but it was different this time. As always, it
began with the swish and glimmer of metal blades, frighteningly close, and
the rumble of ancient machinery. There was the voice, silky and
ingratiating, a little maddening. It echoed so that James couldn't understand
it, but occasional phrases slipped through. "Time is not yet come…," the

voice said, and "The task set before you…" and "… bearer of
redemption…" In the dream, James shuddered.
There was a figure walking with him, but all James could see in the
darkness was a faceless silhouette. James seemed to float with the figure, as
if carried by it somehow. He felt the scar on his head like a weight. Then,
for the first time, light bloomed in the strange space. It emanated from the
pool, green and flickering, throwing dancing ripples over every surface. The
walls were stone, old and slick with moss. James had a sense of being
underground, far from the light of day. The voice continued to speak as
figures moved in the brightly glimmering water, like reflections from
another world. The voice came from a figure in the dark corner, draped in
black. As it spoke, the two faces formed in the water again, their
expressions both sad and hopeful, pleading. They were clearer this time,
rippling just under the water's surface: a man and a woman, younger than
James' parents. James' companion gasped and dropped to kneel, crawling to
the water's edge, reaching to touch the rippling surface.
"Stop," the voice commanded. "The time is not yet come. You would
join them in that world, not return them to this one. Their blood calls for
payment. Only then can they cross over. But you can extract that payment.
You are the one to bring about redemption, not only for them, but for all
who've gone over at the will of the oppressors. You are the hand of balance.
Your duty is harsh, and your burden heavy, but it is not without its rewards.
You will have them back. And you will live to see the day of change. If you
wish it."
"I wish it," the voice of James' companion whispered, and James
whispered it as well, helpless not to. His voice made no sound at all.
He awoke, startled by some noise. The dream remained vivid in his
memory so that it almost felt like he was still dreaming. He sat up in his bed
and could tell by the moonlight that it was the very dead of night. Nearby,
Graham slept with one arm dangling over the bed. The room was full of the
silence of deep sleep.
"Cedric?" James whispered very quietly, careful not to wake anyone.

He threw back his covers and slipped out of bed. There was no sign of the
ghost. Perhaps he was down in the common room. James collected his
wand and his glasses from his satchel and made his way to the stairs. He
stopped near the doorway, noticing something strange. Scorpius' bed was
rumpled but empty. James narrowed his eyes. Where was that little viper?
He thought about Scorpius telling Rose he'd heard James talking in his
sleep. Why had Scorpius been awake those times? He was surely up to
something. Reluctantly, James determined to think about it later. He had
more important things to do now. He turned and crept down the stairs to the
common room.
The room was completely empty and dark except for the dull red glow
of the fireplace. There was still no sign of Cedric's ghost. James whispered
his name again, a little louder this time, but there was no response. James
sighed and walked over to the fireplace. As he plopped into the high-back
chair, a voice spoke up brightly, shocking him.
"Hey, James!" the voice said. "Where's everybody at?"
James spluttered, looking around. "What? Who… Zane?!"
Zane stood by the fireplace, apparently leaning on the mantle, although
he didn't quite seem to be touching it. He grinned mischievously. "Who
else? You got my duck, I see."
"Your—" James began, still recovering from the shock. "No. What?
Your duck? What are you doing here?"
"I sent you a message by duck a few minutes ago," Zane said, referring
to the Protean rubber ducks they used to send notes to each other. James had
completely forgotten about his. "I assumed you got the message. I told you
and Ralph to meet me by the fireplace in five minutes. So where's
everybody else? This place is dead as a doorknob."
James rolled his eyes. "So that's what woke me up! Zane, it's the
middle of the night," he exclaimed, stifling a grin. Zane's utter

precociousness always amazed him. "Ralph's in bed down in the Slytherin
quarters. You forgot the time difference again!"
"Oh yeah," Zane said, grimacing. "It's only eight here. I mean, there.
Where I really am. So what do you think of this? Much better than the
lunarfly dust. Do I look all right?"
James squinted. "Well, you did a minute ago. You're starting to fade a
bit around the edges. How are you doing it?"
"It's pretty good, eh?" Zane replied. "Another of Professor Franklyn's
brainstorms. The beauty of it is its simplicity. You ever hear of a
Doppelganger?"
James frowned. "Er, yeah, actually. It's a mythical double of yourself.
It shows up to warn you of your own impending death, right?"
Zane nodded brightly. "Yeah, exactly. Franklyn figured if we faked the
circumstances of untimely death, the Doppelganger might show up. Then,
when it did, we could harness it and send it out to relay personal messages,
like this one."
"So you're in mortal peril over there?" James asked, furrowing his
brow.
"Yes and no. The Doppelganger has to think so, but Professor Franklyn
has it all worked out. There're loads of fail-safes. I'm only technically in
mortal peril. When we finish talking, I'll be in the clear again. It's all a little
complicated, but the Department has worked out most of the bugs. You
have your wand with you?"
"Er, yeah," James answered.
"Shoot me with it, will you? It doesn't matter how. A Stinging Hex or
something. I'm starting to fade out."
"What? I mean, are you sure?"

"Totally. Make it quick. See, the problem with this method of
communicating is maintaining the magic over long distances. We need a
boost from your end to keep it up; otherwise, I'll just fade out."
James produced his wand and, reluctantly, pointed it at the fading
figure of Zane. "Acervespa," he pronounced. A thin, needlelike bolt shot
out of his wand. Zane's figure seemed to absorb the bolt. It grew suddenly
solid again.
"That hit the spot," Zane said. "So how're things across the pond?"
"Ugh," James said, slouching in his chair. "Complicated. Albus is a
Slytherin, I'm getting phantom broadcasts through some kind of ghost scar,
the son of Dad's mortal enemy stole my bed, and everybody is worried
Merlin has gone evil."
Zane grimaced. "Whoa. That's a mouthful. One thing at a time. You
don't think the big guy's gone evil, do you?"
James shook his head tiredly. "No, but some people do. Even Rose
does. Especially after the other night."
James told Zane about the scene in the Amsera Certh Mirror. Zane
listened critically, one corner of his mouth cinched up in his unique
expression of thoughtfulness.
"So what happened then?" Zane asked once James had finished.
"What do you mean? That's it. Isn't that enough?"
"I mean, how'd Merlin get back if you shut the Focusing Book on
him?"
"I don't know," James mused. He hadn't really thought about it. "But
he did get back. I guess he has other means of getting around. If that was
really him."

"It was him," Zane said, nodding. "You just don't want to admit it."
James frowned, but before he could object, Zane went on. "But the
good news is he must have been there for all the right reasons. Otherwise,
you'd be toast, wouldn't you?"
"What do you mean?" James asked warily.
"I mean, he saw you, didn't he? You said that the pale dude pointed out
of the Mirror right at you, and everyone turned to look. That means Merlin
saw you. If he was in league with these guys, he'd have come for you three
the moment he got back. You'd all be banished to the Netherworld, or
whatever it is guys like Merlin do to their enemies."
James furrowed his brow. "I hadn't thought of it that way."
"Of course you hadn't," Zane shrugged. "I was always the brains of the
outfit."
James grimaced. "Well, either way, I'll know more after tonight. In
fact, I thought you were my wakeup call. I've got some sneaking around to
do and I'm a little nervous about it. I don't even have the Invisibility Cloak
this time. So anyway, what about you? How are things at Alma Aleron?"
"You wouldn't believe it," Zane said, shaking his head. "Classes are
positively huge, and the wizarding community over here is way different.
There are actual Sasquatches in some of my classes. Bigfeet! And let me
tell you, they're a lot smarter than they look, even if they do only talk in
grunts. Also, the Progressive Element is all over the place around here, only
they don't call themselves that. They just talk a lot about how the old ruling
elite have always halted change and stifled progress, stuff that sounds all
great until you remember that change and progress are the same things that
make milk go sour. Anyway, a lot of them give me the evil eye because they
think they know what happened there at Hogwarts last year. Madame
Delacroix's in prison, you know. A lot of people talk like she's a hero, like
some kind of political exile. It's completely quantum to me."

"The voodoo queen's in prison?" James asked, his eyes going wide.
"They have wizarding prisons there?"
"Well, it's more of a mental hospital, but it's under total lockdown. She
was never really the same after that night in the Grotto Keep. She got a little
cracked, if you know what I mean. Technically, she's just under observation.
In fact, she's right here on campus, in the medical building. Hey, Cedric.
How's the ghosting going?"
James looked up and saw Cedric moving across the room, smiling
halfheartedly.
"It's time," the ghost said, addressing James.
"That's right," Zane said, "you have your big plans to spy out the
Headmaster. Look, are you certain that's a good idea? That guy must have
anti-spy traps all over the place. You can't just waltz into his office even if
you did have the Invisibility Cloak."
"I've got a plan," James said, firming his jaw.
"Oh," Zane replied, rolling his eyes. "Well, if it's as solid as the plans
we came up with last year, then I feel loads better."
"You're fading out again, mate," James said, climbing out of the chair
and turning to join Cedric. "Pop up anytime you want."
"You can count on it. Good luck. And James?"
James stopped and turned. Zane was fading almost to nothing. He
looked even ghostlier than Cedric.
"Keep me in the loop, you know? I was there when Merlin showed up.
If he has gone to the dark side, I want to know about it. Maybe I can help."
"He hasn't," James said. "Don't worry about it."

Zane grinned. "I didn't say I was worried."
A moment later, the figure of Zane evaporated like a puff of smoke.
As they slipped through the portrait hole, Cedric asked, "What was that
all about?"
James shook his head. "Just Zane being Zane. Come on, let's get this
over with."
"So what do you need me to do?"
James took a deep breath and looked down the very dark, very silent
corridor. "Just get me into the Headmaster's office," he whispered. "After
that, as Zane would say, it's all quantum."

James had hoped that the password to the Headmaster's staircase
hadn't changed since he, Ralph, and Rose had gone to ask permission to
start the Defence Club. By the time he got to the gargoyle guarding the
entrance, he'd nearly forgotten the old Welsh phrase, but when he
remembered it and said it aloud, the gargoyle stepped tiredly aside.
"Nothing good comes from such a late visit," the gargoyle muttered as
James and Cedric passed. "But then again, what do I know? My head's
made of marble."
At the top of the staircase, Cedric walked silently through the office
door. A few moments later, the bolt shot back from the inside and the door
creaked slowly open.

"They're all asleep," Cedric whispered, indicating the headmasters'
portraits. "Even Dumbledore and Snape."
James nodded and crept into the room. The office was quite dark and
foreboding despite the sound of mingled snores from the portraits. A single
beam of moonlight laid a stripe across the floor, up the front of the massive
desk, and across Merlin's Focusing Book. James crept across the floor
toward the desk, not wishing to look at the Amsera Certh but unable to
avoid it. The surface of the Mirror was thick with rolling, silvery smoke,
casting its own pale light on the nearby furnishings.
"I only n-need a few m-minutes," James whispered, his teeth
chattering. The Headmaster's office was unusually cold. James could see his
breath puffing as he spoke. "I just need you t-to lock the door afterwards…"
There was no answer. Cedric had already gone out to the hallway to
wait. He'd told James that he hated being in Merlin's office. "Too many
traps," he'd explained simply, "even for a ghost."
Something white and flitting reached lazily out toward James. He
jumped, and his heart lurched up into his throat, pounding wildly. It was
only the linen curtains hung over the window, billowing in a sudden breeze.
It was no wonder the office was so cold. Merlin had left his window open,
leaving the cold night wind to play in the curtains. Through the window,
James could just see the arc of the moon. It hung in the sky like a bonecolored scythe. He shivered and willed his heart to stop pounding.
Trembling, he turned back to the desk.
The Focusing Book seemed to glow in the beam of moonlight. The
closed cover was very thick, bound with polished wood and brass hinges.
There was a lock, but it was unlatched. James touched the book, and then
quickly opened it, wanting to get the task over as soon as possible. The
pages were heavy, made of a rich, creamy paper that slid easily under
James' fingertips. Every page was almost entirely blank except for a single
line handwritten in ink: a place and a date. James flipped through them as
quickly and carefully as possible, reading each one. After a minute, an idea

struck him. He flipped to the end of the book and found blank pages.
Quickly, he paged backwards, riffling through the heavy, blank pages until
he got to the last one with writing on it. He stopped, jabbed a finger at it and
read: 'THE GRAVE OF THE SOUGHT HOST, OCTOBER'.
This was it. He hoped it would work, and yet, even now, part of him
also hoped it wouldn't. He backed away from the book, his eyes wide and
his heart still hammering. He could tell by the change in the lighting of the
room that the Mirror had focused. There was the sound of wind creaking in
trees and rustling leaves. Slowly, James produced his glasses from the
pocket of his pyjamas and put them on. He didn't want to miss anything this
time. Finally, he turned around.
The scene was exactly as he'd remembered. There was the grave of
Tom Riddle, choked with vines and topped with the smiling, handsome
statue. Daylight filtered through the trees, grey and misty. Now that James
knew what to look for, he could see the creature of smoke and ash standing
in front of the grave. As before, the ragged bottom of the cloak blew in the
wind with no feet coming out of it. Something about the figure defied the
eye, forced it away, but James made himself look at it. Was this the
Gatekeeper of whom Farrigan had spoken? James felt a sinking certainty
that it was. As before, it looked less like a cloaked figure and more like a
hole cut in space, showing some awful infinity of swirling blackness and
swarming cinders.
James waited and watched, shivering in the cold of the Headmaster's
office. Outside, the wind seemed to be increasing. It pushed restlessly
through the window, flapping the curtains. Finally, as James watched, the
Gatekeeper raised its arm, letting the sleeve fall back. The hand was thin
and pale, as it had been the first time James had seen it, and James thought
he could tell that it wasn't really a human hand at all, but simply a shape
meant to look like one. This time, the hand didn't beckon. It remained
upraised for a long moment. And then the figure turned its head. The cloak's
hood was empty, but it was obviously looking at James through the Mirror.
James gasped and stepped back.
Several things happened at once: a gust of wind roared in through the

window, streaming the curtains and riffling the pages of the Focusing Book,
the door to the Headmaster's office was thrown wide open, slamming
against the inside wall, and light poured in from the hall, revealing a large,
stalking silhouette. James plunged forward, trying to hide in the shadow of
the Magic Mirror.
Before James' face, the mirror glass altered as the pages of the
Focusing Book riffled. Scenes flickered past, rising and falling out of the
silvery smoke. Elsewhere in the office, the portraits of the former
headmasters were now awake, although none spoke. The silhouetted figure
stalked through the room, searching it. James had been discovered.
Whoever it was would see him at any moment. James huddled, pressing his
hands to the glass, panting and terrified. He wished he could be anywhere
else at that very moment.
And then, suddenly, he was.
There was a horrid, disorienting sense of flipping, as if James' entire
body had been turned inside out. It was over almost before he knew what
was happening. Suddenly, the scene in the Mirror wasn't the silvery smoke;
it was the Headmaster's office, but backwards, somehow. James could
clearly see the shadow of a large man moving over the floor on the other
side of the Mirror, and then the man himself walked into view, very close. It
was Merlin, his eyes wide and searching.
Without thinking James ducked below the surface of the Mirror.
Desperately, he peered up, craning his neck to see if he'd been discovered.
From this new angle, the scene in the Mirror looked different. In fact, the
mirror itself was different. It was rather smaller, framed in silver, and hung
on a stone wall rather than in a wooden frame. James frowned, confused
and frightened. Now that he looked around, he could see he was in an
entirely different place. Somehow, he'd come through the Mirror. When
he'd wished to be somewhere else, he'd been touching the Amsera Certh,
and the Mirror had apparently made his wish come true. How could he have
been so careless? The Focusing Book's pages had been riffling in the wind,
so there was no way to tell what page of the Book he had been sent to.

James tried to take stock of his surroundings. He was still huddled
below the new mirror, hunkered in a narrow space between the wall and a
sort of huge stone block. There were voices nearby. Very carefully, James
raised his head. The block was about three feet high with an enormous,
complicated shape rising out of it. With a start, James realized it was a
statue. It looked vaguely familiar, although it was hard to tell from this
angle. James peered around a monstrous carved foot, trying very hard not to
breathe. The voices were very close by, and as James peered, he finally saw
the owners of the voices. There were four people, all dressed in robes and
cloaks of various colors. They were facing away from James, forming a
rough line. Suddenly, there was a blinding flash and a puff of acrid smoke.
"One for the ages, methinks," a hearty voice cried. "A pity it won't be
in color."
"Color will come soon enough, Godric," a woman's voice trilled
happily. "And perhaps even movement, like little living paintings."
"We already have moving paintings," a second man's voice said with a
hint of a sneer. "I fail to see how this process is in any way superior."
"Always the skeptic, Salazar," a different woman's voice commented.
"Rowena's inventiveness should be lauded, not criticized. Leave that to the
apprentices whose work it is to refine her technique."
James' eyes nearly bulged out of his head. Now that the photo had
been taken, the four individuals were gravitating toward the rotunda exit.
Nearby, a small, grizzled goblin was extinguishing the flash mechanism
while another goblin disassembled a gigantic, ancient camera. As the two
women and two men walked out into the sunlit hall, James looked up at the
high archway. There, carved carefully in the stone at the peak of the arch,
each letter as sharp as the chisel that had cut it, were the words: 'SCHOLA
HOGVARTENSIS ARTIUM MAGICARUM ET FASCINATIONUS'.
James slumped back against the wall as the voices faded. There was no
doubt about it. Somehow, impossibly, he had been hurled back in time to

the founding of Hogwarts. He was in the old rotunda, hiding under the
intact statue of the founders, as the founders themselves walked into the
light of a thousand year old sunset. But what struck James as the most
absurd thing of all was that Ashley Doone had been right that day in
History of Magic.
James was the ghost in the plinth.

10. THE BEACON STONE
James waited until the goblins finished disassembling the handmade
camera equipment, loaded the pieces onto a rough cart, and wheeled it
away, talking the entire time in a strange goblin language. When they were
gone and the rotunda was empty, James jumped up. He peered into the
silver-framed mirror, wondering why anyone would hang a mirror behind a
statue. The mirror showed merely the shadowy backsides of the statues and
James' own face, which was rather wild-eyed. His glasses were askew. He
whipped them off and stuffed them into his pyjama pocket. For a moment,
he was filled with a horrible panic. The Mirror-portal had closed! How
would he ever get back? But then, as he placed his hands on the surface of
the mirror glass, the reflection changed. Merlin's office leapt into view, as if
summoned by James' touch. Candles had been lit and Merlin stood at his

desk, his back to the Mirror. He was turning the pages in the Focusing
Book. He seemed to sense James' gaze, for he suddenly turned his head,
peering back at the Mirror, his eyes sharp. James leapt aside, throwing
himself against the stone wall next to the mirror. The moment his fingers
left its surface, however, the reflection changed back to normal; the
Headmaster's office winked away, replaced by the reflection of the
enormous statue and the rotunda.
James breathed a huge sigh of relief. All he needed to do was to wait
until Merlin left his office again. Then, James could simply touch the mirror
on this side and wish to go back to his own time. Hopefully, he'd be sent
back through the Amsera Certh again. Once he got back, he'd still have to
escape the Headmaster's office undetected, but he'd work that out when the
time came. Quietly, James hunkered down behind the statue plinth and
leaned against the wall.
Now that he had calmed down a bit, James began to notice the noises
and smells of this ancient version of Hogwarts. The rotunda itself was
empty, but the rest of the castle sounded like a hive of activity. Voices
echoed, overlapping and busy. There was the sound of footsteps and even
the clatter of hooves on stone. Clanks and hisses indicated a nearby kitchen.
The smells were a mingled potpourri of stew and plowed earth, sawdust and
animal dung. James found that he was curious. If he had to wait anyway,
was there any reason he shouldn't explore the original Hogwarts a little?
Rose would probably punch him if he didn't take advantage of the
opportunity. James climbed up and peered between the enormous feet of the
statue of Helga Hufflepuff. The rotunda remained completely still and
empty. Cautiously, James crept out from behind the statue and crossed the
room. It was just like the old rotunda in the Hogwarts he knew, except that
it wasn't old; every block in the wall was straight and sharp-edged, perfectly
fitted in its place. At the archway, James turned back and looked at the
statue. He'd often wondered what it had looked like before it was broken.
The stone figures of the founders were each twenty feet tall, all smiling
except for the statue of Salazar Slytherin, which seemed to smirk slightly,
the eyes narrowed. On the wall behind them, above the silver-framed

mirror, was a gigantic Hogwarts crest fashioned from wood and painted
brightly. The overall look was quite imposing.
"Boy!" someone cried nearby. James jumped, wheeling so fast that he
nearly fell on the floor.
A man in a long fur cloak was standing in the doorway of the rotunda
entrance. His bushy eyebrows were furrowed over bright, deep-set eyes. He
held the reins of a regal white horse. "Stable the packhorse and send word
to your lord that his guests are arrived. We can find our own quarters if
none can be bothered to greet us."
James was completely flummoxed. Not knowing what else to do, he
ran over to the man and tentatively reached for the reins. The man looked
him up and down suspiciously, and James remembered that he was dressed
in blue- and white-striped pyjamas.
"Not the steed, boy," the man growled. "No one handles this beast but
myself. Your charge is yonder packhorse." He pointed out over the portico
to a huge packhorse laden with canvas burdens. Hitched to it was a cart
with thick, wooden wheels. The man leaned toward James threateningly.
"Are you a stable boy or a jester? What manner of reception is this?"
"Er, sorry sir. No problem," James stammered. "I can handle your
horse, uh, Sire. Master. Er, Your Highness."
The man's face suddenly spread into a toothy grin, as if he thought
James was mocking him and was pleased to plan his comeuppance.
"Amusing, boy. Your lord will surely enjoy the joke as much as I do. See to
it that our baggage is brought to our quarters, and I'll personally strop the
porter who proves careless. Spread the word."
With that, the man flung the reins of his steed over the nearby hitching
post and strode into the dimness of the castle, his furs swaying. He left a
strange, spicy scent behind him. James turned back to the enormous
packhorse and the wagon. He considered simply running away now that no
one was watching, but then thought better of it. Surely, he could at least

lead the horse to the stables. All he'd have to do was follow his nose.
Besides, the task would allow him a view of the original castle without
looking too conspicuous. First though, he needed something else to wear.
He looked around quickly. Instead of the weedy hilltop of James' time, the
rotunda entrance overlooked a carefully cropped courtyard surrounded by a
low fieldstone wall. Running across the center of the courtyard was a
babbling stream, fed through stone gates on either side. There, sitting on a
large boulder near the stream, were three baskets of clothing. James ran
over, hoping whoever was doing the washing would stay away a bit longer.
The contents of the baskets were very rough robes, much larger than
James could comfortably wear. He struggled into one anyway, trying to roll
up the enormous sleeves. The bottom of the robe pooled around his feet
comically. The robe was better than his stripy pyjamas, but not by much.
Perhaps he'd find something better later. He turned and ran back to the
packhorse, holding up the robe to avoid stumbling over it.
He took the reins of the horse, which was easily twice his height. The
horse continued to crop the grass of the courtyard, chewing methodically,
but it followed amiably as James tugged the reins. The wheels of the wagon
creaked as the horse pulled it. James didn't know where he was going, but
he assumed if he walked around the castle he'd eventually come to the
stables. He took the opportunity to look around.
Hogwarts castle was much smaller than he knew it in his time. It
huddled around the rotunda entrance, which was festooned with a great iron
portcullis, currently raised. The turrets gleamed in the sunset, their conical
roofs looking sharp enough to prick James' finger. Much higher than the
turrets was the Sylvven Tower, which James knew well. It looked exactly
the way he remembered it, although in this time it dominated the silhouette
of the entire castle. As James circled the castle, leading the horse through a
rough stone gate, he noticed that the land around the castle was dotted with
farms and cottages. James was a little surprised. In his time, Hogwarts
castle stood alone in a large, forested wilderness, secluded and hidden.
Here, however, the castle overlooked a bustling community. People moved
busily all around, obviously consumed with the business of peasant life. As
James led the horse and cart, trying to look like he knew where he was

going, he passed people carrying baskets and pots, herding sheep and cows,
or pushing wooden handcarts laden with vegetables. Several people shot
James careful looks, and at least one woman laughed, but at least no one
was accosting him or demanding to know what he was doing.
Finally, James caught the scent of fresh animal dung on the shifting
breeze. He looked and saw a huge stone barn. He grinned, recognizing it; it
was the same barn that Hagrid, in James' time, was currently holding Care
of Magical Creatures in. The roof was different, and there was something
like a blacksmith's shed attached to the side, but it was otherwise
unchanged. As James approached, he heard the stamp and whicker of
horses and the clang and hiss of the smith.
"What's all this, then?" a burly man with bare arms called, stepping out
of the main barn door and eyeing James.
"Er, this packhorse needs stabled," James replied, holding up the reins.
"The owner sent me here. I'm not really a stable boy."
"That I can tell," the man said gruffly, scowling, "seeing as you've
brought me yonder horse without even releasing its cart. Perhaps you
expect me to stable it as well?"
"No!" James replied. "It's supposed to be unloaded and taken to the
owner's quarters. He said he'd… er, strop anyone who wasn't careful with
his stuff."
"Don't tell me how to do porter work, boy," the man said, rolling his
eyes wearily. "I'd strop you myself if I had the time. Thomas! Send for the
page. We need this cart returned to the valet before Lord Maarten gets
frisky."
The man looked down at James again, sighing. "You're either a thief or
you're the youngest cleric I've ever seen. Your mistress will lash you good
when she sees what you've done to that robe. What's your name?"
James' heart jumped, but he couldn't think of a lie fast enough. "Er,

James, sir. James Potter."
"The Potter's boy, eh? Well, then, you had best run along back to the
market. And tell your da that the pestle for which we traded him has got a
crack on the rim. I'll send the wife down with it at the morrow."
The man seemed to dismiss James. He turned and walked back into the
shadow of the barn, calling again for Thomas. James sighed in relief.
Obviously, the man thought James was the son of the village pot maker. He
turned and looked back the way he'd come. The landscape between the
castle and the barn was completely different in this time. James could only
see the flat top of the Sylvven Tower poking over a stand of birches. He
began to make his way back, ducking through the carts and farm animals.
A sort of marketplace was erected around the back of the castle.
Wooden stalls, benches, and carts were arranged haphazardly, each decked
with all manner of goods. People thronged near the stalls, shouting and
waving, bartering and arguing. Livestock mingled with the peasants, adding
their own voice and smell to the scene. James darted through the fracas,
trying to stay out of people's way and avoid stepping in animal dung. Bits
of conversation drifted over him as he moved, and James began to sense
that these were mostly Muggles, although they seemed aware of the
magical nature of the castle and its inhabitants.
"This here's an authentic enchanted fork, it is," a man was saying to a
skeptical-looking peasant woman. "Makes any meal taste like it is fit for a
king. My Lars found it in the grass after some of the magical folk had a
picnic. Only two chickens and it can be yours."
The woman scoffed and turned away. The man seemed unperturbed.
He saw James looking. "What think yeh, lad? Fancy a bit o' real magic? Tell
yer mam to stop on by, will yeh not?"
James shrugged and backed away.
As he entered the shadow of the castle, James spied a broad doorway.
Clanks and hisses emanated from the space beyond, and James guessed by

the smells that it was the kitchen. He remembered hearing the kitchen from
the rotunda and decided this entrance was probably his best option for
getting back to the statue and the mirror. He sauntered toward the door,
trying to look inconspicuous. It occurred to him that he'd look more
appropriate if he was carrying something. Near the door, a stack of copper
pots sat next to a huge cauldron boiling over a fire. James glanced around,
assuring that no one was looking, and then grabbed the pot on top. As he
turned, cradling the pot in his arms, he heard a rattling crash. He glanced
back. The rest of the pots had fallen over, the topmost one spilling water
onto the fire, which hissed and sputtered.
"What's this?" a woman's voice cried, stridently. "Making off with the
wares, are yeh? That's the coppersmith's lot! Thief!"
James dropped the pot and ran. He heard the ruckus behind him as the
woman screamed and gave chase, but he didn't look back. He plunged into
the darkness of the kitchen, weaving past a man in a leather vest and
knocking over a woman carrying a platter. The kitchen was very dark but
for the blaze of the brick oven. James aimed for it, and saw another
doorway.
"Thief!" another voice called, joining the chorus from outside. "Stop
him!"
A burly man with no shirt and a stained apron hanging from his middle
stepped in front of James, grinning wickedly under his huge black
mustache. He held a butcher knife in his hand, fingering it like it was a
cutlass.
James tried to stop, but he was moving too fast and the stone floor was
wet. He slipped, fell on his behind, and slid right between the man's spread
legs. The man looked down as James passed beneath him.
"Stand fast!" the man cried, spinning. James struck the wall on the
opposite side of the corridor and scrambled up. Keeping as low as he could,
he bolted down the corridor. The man roared and raised the knife, but
someone else grabbed his wrist from behind.

"Calm yourself, Larkin! He's just a lad. Dropped the pot outside,
even," a voice admonished. "Planning to split his skull for makin' you look
a fool? If that was a killin' offense, you'd have to execute the entire
kitchen."
James sensed the pursuit had ended, but he couldn't make himself stop
running. He came to an intersection in the corridor and was pounding
straight through it when a hand snagged his wrist like a vice. James spun,
momentum carrying him around, and tumbled to the floor, looking up at the
figure that had stopped him.
"We do not approve of running in the halls," Salazar Slytherin said,
staring down his nose at James. His fingers were still clamped on James'
wrist. They were very cold. "What manner of revolt is this? A single boy?"
"I'm not part of a revolt," James said, panting. "I was just… er…"
"You are indeed revolting," Slytherin growled, slitting his eyes, "but
only because of your dirty blood. How dare you cross into these halls,
Muggle?"
James felt an angry response welling up in him, but with an effort of
will, he quelled it. "Sorry, sir. I was… lost."
Slytherin leaned toward James, using the grip on his wrist to pull him
close. "You dare look me in the eye as if you believed me an equal?"
Slytherin hissed. "The soft hearts of my fellows have bred insolence in your
kind, but I will not have it. You will address me as 'Master', and you will
avert your eyes, or I will have them for my collection. Is that clear, son of
dirt?"
James used Slytherin's grip as leverage, pulling himself to his feet.
When he was upright, he yanked as hard as he could, wrenching his wrist
from the wizard's grasp.
"Blimey," James said angrily, "the history books sure got it right about

you."
Slytherin's eyes blazed and his expression turned wary. He reached for
his wand with one lightning quick movement. James scrambled to find his
own, but it was too buried under the ridiculous robe.
"Salazar," a voice suddenly called. Slytherin froze. James whirled
around, thankful for the interruption. The woman James recognized as
Rowena Ravenclaw had just walked around a bend in the hall. Her eyes
were suspicious as she glared over James' head at Slytherin. "We've been
waiting for you. The audience with Lord Maarten is begun. How much
longer do you intend to palaver with this, er, young cleric?"
Rowena dropped her eyes to James and winked, unsmiling.
James turned back to Slytherin, who glared at him furiously. Then,
suddenly, his face changed. He smiled indulgently and patted James lightly
on the head.
"Run along, lad," he said in a singsong voice. "I'm sure we'll have a
chance to finish our 'palaver' soon enough."
James stared up at Slytherin, thinking that the wizard might simply
curse James in the back as soon as he turned away. Slytherin's expression
didn't change, but his eyes hardened. Go now or face the consequences, the
eyes seemed to say. James risked it. He turned and walked as quickly as he
could, taking a corridor at right angles to the one Slytherin and Rowena
Ravenclaw occupied. It curved to the right and met a short flight of stairs.
When James reached them, he looked back. Slytherin was no longer visible.
Breathing yet another sigh of relief, James took the stairs two at a time.
As he navigated the corridors, he could still hear the echoing clatter of
the kitchens. He had to be very near the rotunda. Nothing looked familiar
however. Torches flickered and sizzled in great iron wall brackets, making
shadows leap on the walls, disorienting James. He passed more people,
some of them no older than he was, and assumed he was encountering some
of Hogwarts' original students. They turned as he passed, their eyes curious

or outright suspicious. He began to panic. Finally, as James passed a pair of
older boys in green tunics, he turned, meeting their stares.
"Sorry, I'm new here," he ventured, trying to keep his voice even. "Do
either of you know where the rotunda is?"
"What might you need in the rotunda, boy?" the taller one replied,
showing his teeth in a parody of a charming smile. "You must know that it's
time for Alchemy class."
"Perchance he doesn't know," the second boy said, his brow lowering.
"His garb tells me he is a Muggle interloper. Lost, are you?"
"Or perhaps not," the darker boy suggested, advancing on James.
"Perhaps you are up to something a bit more nefarious? Methinks the Head
of House shall be the judge."
"No, no," James cried, throwing up his hands. "I think I've already met
him! He, er, says hello!"
James spun on his heels, tripping over the oversized robe. The two
boys advanced on him. One of them reached for the hood of the robe, but
James finally got his footing. He lunged away, yanking away from the boy's
grasp.
"Capture him!" the darker boy ordered, giving chase.
James bolted down the corridor, his heart pounding. He turned at
random hallways, leaping up short stairways and ducking into doorways.
After one turn, he encountered an alcove with a statue in it. To James'
amazement, it was the statue of Lokimagus the Perpetually Productive.
Without thinking, James shimmied into the alcove and hid behind the
stooped statue.
His pursuers' footsteps echoed closer. They clattered to a halt directly
in front of the statue.

"He can't have gotten far," the darker boy barked. "You go on ahead.
I'll double back and make sure we didn't miss him. That Muggle brat will
pay for crossing the path of Slytherin House."
James held his breath until he was sure they were gone. Finally, he
clambered out from behind the statue. He checked both directions, and then
darted out into the corridor again. He hoped desperately that he wouldn't
encounter any more students. If he got caught now, he might never make it
back to the Magic Mirror; he'd be trapped in ancient Hogwarts forever.
James crept around a large archway and gasped. There, across a broad
marble floor, were the gigantic statues of the founders. He'd made it back to
the rotunda! He could see the glint of the silver-framed mirror behind the
statues. James trotted across the floor as lightly as possible, determining to
go back through the mirror now even if Merlin was still in his office. He'd
have to take his chances with an angry Headmaster and hope he'd give
James a chance to explain himself. This ancient world was just too
dangerous to muck about in.
Even as James was thinking this, however, something began to move
from behind the statues. Someone had been standing in their shadow and
was now coming out as if to meet him. James tried to stop, to duck into
another hiding place, but there was nowhere to go. It was already too late.
Salazar Slytherin grinned wickedly at James, triumphant. He had his wand
in his right hand and carried something under his left arm. It was covered in
thick black fabric.
"Imagine meeting you here, my young friend," Slytherin said
smoothly. "You know, I'm beginning to think you aren't a Muggle at all. I'm
beginning to think you are a spy. Very tricky of you, travelling via Mirror. I
had made the mistake of believing that was impossible."
James shook his head, "It's not what you think! I just need to—"
Slytherin's voice turned icy. He held his wand up but didn't point it at

James. "I can promise you one thing, though, my young friend," he said,
turning, "I will not make that same mistake twice."
A bolt of white light shot from Slytherin's wand. It struck the silverframed mirror, which exploded into sparkling bits. The pieces flew between
the stone legs of the statues and pattered to the floor.
"No!" James cried, dropping to his knees. He reached for one of the
shards, but it was no use. The tiny fragment showed nothing meaningful.
The portal was destroyed.
"They say it's seven years bad luck to break a mirror," Slytherin
commented lightly. His footsteps crunched on the bits of broken glass as he
walked toward James. He grinned maliciously. "I guess that just shows what
they know, doesn't it?"
James scrambled away from Slytherin, struggling to extricate his wand
from the oversized robe. Slytherin stepped casually after James, shaking his
head in amusement. As James finally found his wand and pointed it, the
bald wizard was already flicking his. There was a sharp crack and James'
wand flew out of his hand. It clattered several feet away.
"I'd thought that I was one of but two men in the earth who knew the
ways of the Mirrors," Slytherin said, still advancing on James. With a deft
flourish, he pulled the black cloth off the object he'd been holding under his
arm. It was another mirror, small and oval-shaped, its golden frame
fashioned into the shape of a coiled snake. "This one is particularly
interesting, especially to someone in your predicament. No, I'm sorry to say
it isn't a portal. It's a bit more… one-way."
Slytherin held the mirror so that James saw himself in it. The reflection
showed a boy in a pathetically oversized robe, his eyes wild and fearful.
"Have you ever heard of the old Muggle superstition that if you stare
into a reflection for too long, you'll become the reflection?" Slytherin asked
smoothly, still holding the mirror toward James. "They fear that if they then
walk away from the reflection, they will simply… disappear."

James had been inching slowly toward his wand, which was lying on
the floor a few feet away. Now he steeled his nerve and lunged for it. An
instant later, pain roared up his arm, crippling him. He fell to the floor,
screaming. Desperately, he looked to see what had caused the damage, and
then gasped in shock. His entire right arm had vanished up to the shoulder.
He stared at the place where it should have been, unable to resist trying to
grab at it with his left hand. Slytherin was laughing happily. He approached
James again, and as he did, James' arm faded back into existence. The pain
receded.
"There's nothing so instructive as a practical example, is there, my
young friend?" Slytherin said, holding the mirror so that James could see
himself in it once more. "As you've just illustrated, if you choose to stay
within the reflection, you will be perfectly safe. If, however, you attempt to
leave it… well, I really do not need to say any more, do I?"
Slytherin flicked his wand again. James' wand lofted into the air,
turning end over end. The bald wizard caught it deftly and held it up.
"Curious, this. Such a beautifully fashioned wand in the hand of a boy who
barely knows how to use it. You are not a student of this establishment, and
yet you seem to know us. So very many questions do I have for you. And
do you know what, my friend?" Slytherin pocketed James' wand and his
eyes turned narrow and icy. "I have every confidence that you will answer
them."

Several minutes later, James found himself in a darkened room in
Slytherin's personal chambers. The room was quite low, stone-walled, and
surrounded by tapestries depicting rather unpleasant scenes of dancing

skeletons and flaming mountains. Tables on both sides of the room gave
James the impression that this was Slytherin's personal magical laboratory.
The table on the right was laden with gigantic books, parchments, quills,
and paints; the one on the left was arrayed with a mind-boggling collection
of vials, jars, and pots, all arranged on stacked shelves surrounding a large
cauldron. Only one candle burned in the room, blood-red and embedded in
the top of a human skull. James had the distinct and unsettling impression
that very few people had ever seen this room. He sat against the rear wall in
a very straight chair with a high ladder-back. It was rather uncomfortable,
but it was the only chair from which he could see himself in the ovalshaped mirror. Slytherin had positioned the mirror on an easel in front of
the double doors, assuring that James could not approach the doors without
leaving his reflection.
"As much as I would enjoy interviewing you immediately," Slytherin
had explained, "I am a very busy wizard, and you've caught me at a rather
bad time. Let me assure you, though: as soon as I complete my evening's
appointment, you will have my full and undivided attention."
With that, Slytherin had pulled the doors mostly closed, but not
completely. Through the gap, James could see a tiny portion of Slytherin's
main office. As James waited, he could hear the bald wizard moving about,
shuffling parchments and muttering darkly. Finally, there came a single,
loud knock on the outer office door.
"How quaint of you to pretend you are not already in the room, my
friend," Slytherin's voice said. "I sensed your arrival minutes ago, but I
assumed it rude to say so. Please do make yourself comfortable."
Through the crack in the double doors, James saw a shadow move. A
figure passed in front of the crack. There was the creak of a heavy footstep,
and then a deep sigh.
"I despise the very stone of this place," a deep, rumbling voice said.
"The cobbles of its floors are like knives to my feet. I'd call up the fires of
the earth's belly to consume it if I could, and damn your miserable college."

In the darkness of the laboratory, James gasped. He recognized the
voice of Slytherin's visitor. It was incredible, and yet it seemed to fit all too
well. How could he not have made this connection before? His heart
pounded and he strained his ears to listen.
"I sympathize, Merlinus," Slytherin said. "This must be a very
disquieting homecoming for you. Still, you cannot imagine that we'd have
allowed this castle to go unoccupied. As you may guess, not a single
Muggle lord wished to claim it after Lord Hadyn's unfortunate… accident.
Ironically, they believe the castle is cursed rather than magically fortified. I
join you, however, in despising much of what this place has become. My
fellow founders are increasingly double-minded. They coddle the
unmagicked and the dirty half-bloods. They plot against me as we speak. I
fear that my time here is near an end."
"What a pitiful shame," Merlin said, his voice oozing contempt. "And
you had once believed this college would be the dawn of your pureblood
utopia. You must be positively heartbroken."
"My 'pureblood utopia', as you call it, will be a reality whether I assist
it or not, my friend," Slytherin said. "It is the nature of things. The rulers of
this world will only live among the cattle for so long before they rise up.
My role in the process is insignificant, although I admit I wished to live to
see the day. And do not pretend disgust at my words, Merlinus. You are the
greatest proof of my claims even if you deign to ignore it."
"You believe that I detest the unmagicked as you do, but I am not so
simple-minded," Merlin said dismissively. "One rabid wolf doesn't justify
killing the pack. Domination is your only aim, not justice."
"Is it wrong to dominate those unworthy of equality?" Slytherin
replied, as if he and Merlin had had this argument many times before. "One
can make the claim that it is a kindness to govern those who are unable to
govern themselves. Besides…," here, Slytherin's voice became silky, "it
was more than one rabid wolf, wasn't it?"

There was a long silence, and then Merlin said, "I'll not speak of such
things with you."
"Oh, but you do not need to," Slytherin replied. "Everyone knows the
truth of what happened now, don't they? After all, it happened right here,
four moons past. It is the gossip even of the Muggle peasants how the great
Merlinus was humiliated by the Lord Hadyn and his accomplice. How it
must boil your blood to know your name has become a paean to foolish
love."
"I'll not speak of such things with you," Merlin repeated slowly, his
voice low and dangerous.
"I'll be friend enough not to remind you that you were warned from
entangling yourself with the Muggle woman," Slytherin went on, ignoring
Merlin's words. "Judith, I believe her name was? Known jokingly among
the peasants as the Lady of the Lake? Even I implored you not to lower
yourself to her affections. Love makes a fool of any man who indulges it,
and the greater the man, the greater the fool he must become. You were a
very great man, Merlinus. And yet even you were not immune. Love
blinded you when your wits should have been at their sharpest. Perhaps,
had you not been so enamored, you might have seen the truth."
"Hadyn gave me her corpse," Merlin growled menacingly. "He
promised to return her to me. It was the bargain he agreed to if I doubled his
lands and fortified this very castle. But how was I to guess that the man
would dare cheat me so gravely while still maintaining the letter of his
bargain?"
"He gave you a corpse," Slytherin said sorrowfully. "But you might
have known it was not hers. The body was spoiled beyond recognition, but
you were the great Merlin. You could have divined the truth had you tried.
But you chose not to."
"She was to have been my wife," Merlin said, and his voice was like

distant thunder. It rumbled the floor beneath James' feet. "I could not bear it.
I could not bear even to look at that decimated body."
"And Hadyn knew such would be the case. Otherwise, how could he
have dared attempt such obvious trickery? He knew you would be too
stricken to verify the body was truly your Judith. And finally, when you
planned your revenge, when you tracked his coach through the forest, you
could have divined the truth even then. You could have used the birds and
the trees to look into the coach, to assure yourself of who was inside, but
you didn't. Your rage, fuelled by your love for the poor Muggle woman,
blinded you, didn't it? If you had but looked, you could have known the
truth. You could have saved her. For, as everyone now knows, Lord Hadyn
loved Judith as well. He claimed her as his own, and she allowed him to. He
gave you the body of a dead servant woman and kept Judith for himself.
She betrayed you."
"She had no choice!" Merlin cried, his voice cracking.
"There's always a choice," Slytherin insisted. "She could have died for
your love, couldn't she? But no, she chose to be with him instead. She chose
to be with him that very day, in his coach."
"She was only human! She believed I would come for her!"
"She was only human," Slytherin agreed. "A flawed, weak,
unmagicked human, despite your own pathetic attempts to teach her the
arts. And then, in the name of your love-blind revenge, she was a dead
human. Lost, along with her new husband, Hadyn, in a mysteriously tragic
coach accident. Drowned, wasn't it? They say the storm came up with the
force of Jupiter himself, washing the coach right off the bridge. It was
carried quite some way, they say, and smashed to sticks. Along with
every… person… inside."
"I will NOT speak of such THINGS WITH YOU!" Merlin suddenly
roared, shaking the very walls. There was a flash of angry light as every
candle and every flame in the fireplace suddenly exploded into a blue torch.
The flame on the red candle in the laboratory erupted upwards, brightly

illuminating the room for one terrifying moment. Then, as suddenly as it
had happened, the moment passed. The room plunged back into darkness.
In the silence that followed, Slytherin's voice was quiet and silky.
"Forgive me, my friend. I've decided it is my duty to remind you of what
was taken from you, and who took it. I warned you not to trust the Muggles.
They are beasts, incapable of nobility. Their only role is servitude. We are
their masters. It is not only our right to rule them; it is our duty. For their
sake as well as ours."
"You are a lying snake, Salazar Slytherin," Merlin seethed.
"Snake I may be," Slytherin chuckled, "but liar I am not. You are here
because you agree with me, although your foolish conscience bids you not
to admit it."
Merlin said, "In fact, I am only here because you have something I
need."
Slytherin sighed. "Yes, I know. I have already spoken to your
apprentice, Austramaddux, and for once, I agree with him. Your plan is for
the best. This world is no longer yours, Merlinus. The kingdoms advance
their civilizations. They parse the land and plow it; they tear down the
forests and turn them into hovels. They are taming the earth, rendering it
mute to you. I alone know what that does to your powers, for you are unlike
other wizards, my friend. You are not a wizard at all. You are a sorcerer,
perhaps the very last and best of your kind. I am glad you have accepted my
suggestion to step out of this plane of existence. You will return to a better
time. Austramaddux will watch for it."
"There may never again be such a time," Merlin said gravely. "But it
matters not. You are right about one thing: this world is no longer fit for me,
nor I for it. The days are darkened before my very eyes, and by my own
bloody hands. I have chosen to remove myself from the realm of men, but
for my own reasons, Slytherin. You would not understand them. Your heart
is as dark as pitch."

"And yet it is of something dark that you've come to speak, my friend,"
Slytherin replied without missing a beat. "I have divined it. The stone
knows when it is wanted."
"Don't mock me, Slytherin. I know you desire me to break the
boundary of worlds without the stone, for you would then control that
which returned with me."
"You speak of the legend of the Gatekeeper's Curse? You mustn't take
such things seriously. My, what dreams and fancies idle men imagine, don't
they?"
"I am not fooled by your guile. You have the stone, and the Darkbag,
for you are a lover of such dark trinkets. If I am to do what no other man on
this world is capable of doing, I will do it with the tools no other man on
this world could possibly need."
"Tell me, Merlinus," Slytherin said conversationally, "what do you
know of these 'trinkets'?"
"As if the stories of them were not plain enough for a child," Merlin
sighed. "The Darkbag contains the last remnant of pure nothingness left
from the dawn of time. Its uses are myriad and unique. The stone, however,
is the only relic from pre-time. It is a single black onyx, whose origin is the
Void between the worlds. It is immune to time; thus, it is the Beacon of the
Gatekeeper. The holder of the stone may be granted visions of those who've
passed unto death. But more importantly, he who possesses the stone is the
Gatekeeper's Ambassador, should that creature ever cross into the realm of
men."
"Surely you do not believe in such things," Slytherin teased, and yet
James could tell that Slytherin himself believed them fully.
"I believe that none have ever dared to test the legends," Merlin stated
flatly. "But that is only because none have ever been capable of it. It is pure
speculation that he who breaks the boundary between the worlds for any

length of time will attract the Gatekeeper of the Void, possibly bringing it
back with him. If I do it, and if I return, I wish to be the charge of anything
that returns with me."
"But why?" Slytherin suddenly rasped, his voice eager and dripping
with hate. "Let the Destroyer be loosed upon the earth! If man is the
scourge of this world, reducing your power bit by bit, eating it up like
locusts, then let the Gatekeeper be descended upon them! It is their due! If
my prediction is accurate, then the realm of the wizards will have overcome
the Muggles by that day. The magical kingdom will be able to defend itself
against the Gatekeeper, and possibly even ally with it! Only the Muggle
insects and the impure will be destroyed by its hand, and good riddance!
The legend says that the Curse of the Gatekeeper will hearken a new age!
An age of purity, of crystalline perfection! So let it be, Merlinus! Be the
harbinger of the Curse! What more fitting way to reclaim your title as king
of all wizards?"
"If I am to be the harbinger of the Curse, I wish to control it," Merlin
replied calmly.
"I would have it no other way," Slytherin answered. "Without the
Beacon Stone, you might not even gain the attention of the Gatekeeper.
However…"
Merlin waited silently, but James, still sitting in the dark of the
laboratory, could sense the great wizard simmering, his rage all but smoking
off his skin.
Slytherin went on. "The stone is far too powerful to be removed from
the earth entirely. Knowing this day might come, however, I have arranged
for it to be split into two equal pieces. The halves have been set into two
rings. One ring will go with you; the other will stay with me."
"You cannot deceive me, Slytherin," Merlin rumbled. "You wish to
maintain control of the Gatekeeper upon hope of its descent. You wish to
use it to exact revenge upon your enemies. You and they will be long dead
by that time."

Slytherin laughed lightly. "It isn't of any consequence to you, my
friend. My half of the stone will remain, regardless of my own short time
upon this earth. It will be passed on. When and if you do return, signaling
the descent of the Curse, the stone will find its way into the hands of my
descendents. I merely wish for them to be prepared. It is only fair, don't you
agree? Besides," Slytherin went on, his voice dropping, "if you do decide to
abandon your course and thwart the Gatekeeper, well, are you not Merlinus
the Terrible, the last of the line of Myrddred? Are you not the greatest
sorcerer of all the ages? Surely, such a creature as you does not require the
use of a mere 'dark trinket'."
Merlin was silent again, and James sensed him simmering. Finally, he
said, "As you wish, Slytherin. Provide me my half of the stone and I will
take my leave of this place."
There came the sound of a drawer opening, and then the clunk of a
small box. A long silence followed.
"I could simply take both halves of the stone from you, my 'friend',"
Merlin said quietly. "After all, am I not Merlinus the Terrible?"
"You forget the conditions of your lamentable bargain with Hadyn,"
Slytherin replied. There was the clunk of a box closing. "You are unable to
touch the hair of anyone residing within this castle. Your threats are
formidable, but fortunately, they are to no effect here. I do, however,
appreciate the sentiment of it. You may consider it returned."
The floor creaked as Merlin stood. James saw the shadows change in
the room as Merlin prepared to leave. A figure suddenly blocked the view
through the opening in the double doors. It was Slytherin. He opened the
doors slightly and peered in at James. A thoughtful look crossed his face.
His eyes narrowed.
"And by the way, Merlinus," he said, not taking his eyes off of James,
"if you do return in a future age, beware of enemies. Your disappearance

will certainly be legend. Some will be looking for you, and not all will
intend to welcome you."
"I am quite accustomed to dealing with enemies," Merlin's voice
replied, echoing from the depths of the room beyond.
"Nevertheless, if you should come across a certain young man…
brown-eyed, with short, unkempt raven hair and a look of constant
insolence, beware of him. He is your enemy. I have divined it. You must
dispose of him."
"I dispose of no one without just cause," Merlin growled. "Regardless
of your divinations. And even those who deserve such disposal occasionally
slip through my grasp."
"Whereas some who don't deserve it still fall under its judgment,"
Slytherin declared coldly, as if twisting a knife. "But suit yourself,
Merlinus. Watch for the boy. Or ignore him at your peril. I care not which."
A moment later, there came a burst of warm air and a smell of dirt and
growing things. Merlin was gone. Slytherin bared his teeth at James.
"You said history had gotten it right about me," he said, grinning
viciously. "Somehow, I don't believe history will even know your name, my
young friend."

11. THE CIRCLE OF NINE
With a deft flourish, Slytherin threw a black cloth over the oval mirror on
the easel. James cringed, fearing he'd vanish the moment his reflection was
hidden. Slytherin gave him a disdainful look.
"Obviously, the mirror would be useless as a prison if the inmate could
not be released by the jailor, you fool," he said. "Had you attempted it
yourself, your fears would have come true, but if the mirror is covered by
someone else, you are safe. You see? Even now, I am the consummate
teacher, and you the reluctant pupil. Come to me, my friend."
James shook his head, pressing his lips together stubbornly.
Slytherin sighed wearily. "I'm not going to hurt you, boy. I merely
require you to stand with me so that we may Disapparate together."

"You can't Disapparate inside Hogwarts," James replied. "Everybody
knows that."
"I don't know who this 'everybody' is that you speak of, but I am
beginning to suspect that the Hogwarts you believe you know is not the
Hogwarts we currently occupy. Now come here."
James tightened his grip on the arms of the ladder-back chair. "I'm not
going anywhere with you."
"You wish to get to the bottom of this misunderstanding, do you not?"
Slytherin asked. "We both want the same thing, my young friend. Now
come."
As Slytherin said the last word, he flicked his wand. The ladder-back
chair leapt off the floor, taking James with it. It soared toward Slytherin,
and then dumped James onto the floor in front of him. James scrambled to
his feet, staring angrily up at the bald wizard.
"Why don't you just Imperio me, you big bully?" James spat.
"That is an Unforgivable Curse," Slytherin said, tilting his head in
mock dismay. "I am a teacher at this fine establishment. As such, I obey the
law of the land. I may not always agree with those laws, but nonetheless..."
Slytherin held out his hand.
James stared at it, frowning furiously. He knew that if he didn't obey
Slytherin, the man would just force him to comply somehow. Something
inside James determined that he'd rather walk into whatever awaited him
than be carried to it. With that, he looked up into the wizard's cold eyes, and
then took the proffered hand.
There was a sudden, dizzying sense of speed and darkness. The floor
seemed to fall away from James' feet. A split second later, another surface

materialized beneath him. James stumbled on it, and Slytherin let him go
with a shove, driving him to his knees.
"No Disapparition," Slytherin said scornfully, stalking away. "No
useful spells, no understanding of cunning or resourcefulness. I know not
where you come from or who you are, my young friend, but whoever sent
you must have been truly desperate."
James collected himself and stood, struggling with a sort of residual
dizziness. Wherever Slytherin had taken him, it was very dark and cool.
Wind blew fretfully, pushing a rafter of clouds overhead. The moon seemed
unusually close. Its frosty glow illuminated the round, recessed floor of this
strange place. James glanced around. The space was circular, with stone
terraces leading down to a central wooden floor. On either side of this, two
marble thrones faced each other. James' heart sank. He'd been here once
before, in his own time.
"You seem to know much about us," Slytherin said, raising his voice
over the moan of the wind. "Therefore, you must know the purpose of the
Sylvven Tower. Its height, they say, places it outside the realm of the laws
of men. Here, there is no such thing as an Unforgivable Curse. Here, my
young friend, anything can happen."
As if to emphasize Slytherin's point, there was a sudden hiss and swirl
of black smoke. It seemed to stream onto the tower, coalescing on a point to
Slytherin's right. It formed the shape of a man in a black cloak. He was
hoodless, with sharp features and cruel eyes. Slytherin smiled, not taking
his gaze from James. More swirls appeared, hissing into shape, forming
figures all around the circumference of the tower's top terrace. Every figure
wore a black cloak, their heads uncovered. Each newcomer turned to look
at James, their faces cold and calculating.
"Meet my Circle of Nine!" Slytherin cried, throwing his arms wide.
"Fellow wizards who, like myself, recognize the inevitable future of the
magical world, and who join me in fomenting it. Consider yourself honored
to witness this, boy, for few alive know of us, or could guess at the counsels

we keep. And now, let the summit begin! I have convened us this night
because we have very important business to attend to…"
Shockingly, Slytherin suddenly flitted across the top of the tower,
soaring, his feet not touching the ground and his robes flapping like leathery
wings. He stopped directly in front of James, towering over him, his eyes
fierce and intent. "You are that business," he rasped gleefully. He studied
James' face triumphantly, almost lovingly. Then, suddenly, he turned away.
His feet touched the ground again and he walked casually out onto the
wooden floor of the center of the tower. James saw that the trapdoor in the
center of the floor was closed and locked. There'd be no escape that way.
"A moment ago, down in my quarters, I was the teacher and you were
the pupil, boy," Slytherin said, looking out over the low wall that
surrounded the tower. "Let us now reverse those roles. My friends and I
wish to learn much from you tonight. You have the honorable task of
teaching us. Let us start with something simple. What is your name?"
James felt a strong urge not to answer. If he answered even the most
basic question, he feared he would answer all of them. Some latent idea of
braveness and nobility insisted he remain silent no matter what Slytherin or
his cronies did to him.
"You are thinking it is courageous to remain silent, my boy," Slytherin
said slyly, looking back at James over his shoulder. "You are thinking we
will not merely kill you and use our arts to extract what we wish from the
meat of your dead brain. You are thinking that such things do not happen to
brave little boys. And this proves to me, my young friend, that you are
indeed unfamiliar with this age. I know not what happens in the time from
which you come, but here, terrible things happen to little boys every single
day. Moreover, you are unknown here. You are a stranger. No one knows
who you are, or even that you exist. If you disappeared, none would look
for you. None would so much as notice your absence. Knowing that, do you
really wish to stake your life on the hope that I, Salazar Slytherin, might be
too soft-hearted to execute you this very night?"
James met Slytherin's eyes. They glittered in the moonlight like coins.

There was no soul in them. In them, James could very well see his own
death.
James swallowed, and then stood up straight. "My name is James," he
declared, trying very hard not to betray his fear.
"See how easy that was, James?" Slytherin asked, gesturing grandly.
James saw that the wizard had his wand in his hand. He flicked it, almost
casually, and a bolt of stunning, excruciating pain rammed down James'
spine. He arched his back and stumbled backwards, landing on the stone
terrace. The agony was monumental. In it, James forgot where he was. His
vision went white and hazy. All that mattered was that the pain should stop.
It seemed to last hours and days. Then, suddenly, it was gone, and James
knew that it had been mere seconds. His eyes cleared and he saw Slytherin
standing over him, smiling with interest.
"I did not do that because you only answered the question partially,"
Slytherin said. "I did that because you hesitated. I trust you won't let it
happen again."
Slytherin spun, as if to address everyone present. "And now, loud
enough for us all to hear, what is your full name?"
James struggled up, grunting. His knees felt watery and very weak, but
he got them beneath him. "James Sirius Potter," he answered, hating
himself for it. The thought of that pain striking him again was horrid. He'd
do almost anything to avoid it. And besides, he thought, what did it matter?
What could Slytherin do with any information James might give him? It
was a thousand years in the past, wasn't it?
But the future is built on the foundation of the past, a voice seemed to
whisper in James' ear. He thought it was the voice of his father. Be careful,
James. Be shrewd.
"James Sirius Potter," Slytherin said. "Such an innocent sounding
name. Where are you from, Master Potter? When is your time? What can
you tell us of it? Pray, leave nothing out."

"I'm from the future," James said grimly. "A thousand years from now.
I am a student at this school in that time."
"Amazing," Slytherin said, his voice eager. "And yet this is obviously
a lie. I credit your boldness, but it will not serve you well. Answer me
truthfully this moment or face the Cruciatus Curse again. What say you?"
"It is the truth," James replied, raising his voice. "If you want me to
make up something to suit what you want to hear, just let me know. I'll be
happy to tell you whatever story you want."
"Do not tempt us, James Sirius Potter. If, indeed, Hogwarts College
exists a thousand years from now, then it exists in a day when the magical
realm has finally subjugated the Muggle hoard. There would be no room in
such a college for a student like yourself, a boy of obviously dull abilities
and mental weakness. Such a college would put you out where you belong:
with the Muggle cattle and half-blood dogs. Tell us the truth now, or die
with your lies."
"I'm not lying!" James said, growing bold. "Your predictions don't
come true! In my time, the Muggles live alongside the magical world. They
don't even know about us! The wizarding world has lived in secrecy among
them for centuries. There are laws that make sure no witch or wizard tells
any Muggle about us. Not only am I a student a Hogwarts, some of my
classmates are the children of Muggles. In my time, any witch or wizard
can attend Hogwarts, no matter who their parents are. Your stupid plans are
going to come to nothing! In fact, in my time, you're best known for getting
kicked out of the school because you were a mad, power-hungry loon!"
"You lie!" Slytherin roared, wheeling on James and raising his wand.
"You have come here to sow deceit and doubt, but you are found out! You
have not the slightest shred of evidence that this time you speak of is true,
and the evidence of our very beings proves you false. The wizarding realm
could never sink into the shadows of the Muggle world. It would be a
blasphemy and a mockery. If this age that you describe were a reality, it
would collapse under the weight of its own absurdity!"

Slytherin turned again, his robes flapping in the wind as he raised his
arms. "My friends! We are confronted with a mystery. If the world this
James Sirius Potter describes is, in some version of the shifting mists of the
future—and against all logic—a reality, then it must be prevented at all
costs. And if, as I strongly suspect, this boy is a fraud and a liar, flying in
the face of our every attempt to consort with him as gentlemen, then he is
our mortal enemy. Either way, our course is clear…" Here, Slytherin
whipped around again and glared at James. "The boy must die," he said,
grinning viciously. He raised his wand.
Without thinking, James ducked and leapt as Slytherin called the
words of the Killing Curse. The bolt of green sizzled over James' head. He
scrambled down to the lowest terrace and hid behind one of the two stone
chairs.
"Stay your wands," Slytherin called to his associates, unperturbed. "I
can manage the boy. None of you need bother yourselves."
James wished desperately that he still had his wand. An idea occurred
to him and he called out. "Hey! You call yourself a gentleman? Not much
nobility in cursing a kid, is there? At least give me my wand!"
Slytherin laughed in delight. "Finally, the boy shows some spirit," he
cried. "As you wish, Master Potter. Let us duel. Come forth and collect your
wand."
James peered cautiously around the side of the throne. Slytherin saw
him and his grin widened. He produced James' wand from his robes and
held it out. James steeled himself and climbed to his feet again. He began to
cross the wooden floor toward Slytherin, carefully and quickly, his heart
pounding.
Suddenly, surprisingly, there was a loud thump from directly beneath
James' feet. He jumped, startled, and looked down. He was standing on the
trapdoor.

"They come, Salazar," one of the cloaked wizards said. "They have
sensed our summit. We must depart. Deal with the boy elsewhere."
"No," Slytherin said, still grinning. "They cannot reach us. The tower
cannot be breached from outside by any means until the summit is ended. It
is the magical law of the Sylvven Tower. Let us finish our work first, and
then deal with my fellow founders. It is high time they realized the error
they have made in plotting against me."
Voices emanated from below and there was another thump on the thick
wood of the trapdoor. The magical lock rattled but held firm.
"Take your wand, James Potter," Slytherin said. "Let us finish this as
wizards."
James firmed his resolve and stepped off the trapdoor. He'd heard the
stories of how his father had faced off against Voldemort in very similar
fashion. But as James had thought so many times before, he was not his
father. James had no chance against the sheer malevolent power of Salazar
Slytherin. Worse, there was no place to run or hide. The tower was too high
to escape from. James didn't even know how to Disapparate. Shakily, he
reached up for his wand. Slytherin released it, still smiling.
James cleared his throat as he backed away, holding his wand in front
of him. "Do we bow first?" he asked.
"I bow to equals," Slytherin said, baring his teeth. "You may bow
when you're dead." He swept his arm forward. "Avada Kedavra!"
James leapt again and the spell struck the throne with a blast of green
sparks. A small, detached part of James' mind realized that he was making
very good use of the physical techniques he'd learned in Professor
Debellows' Defence Against the Dark Arts class. He almost groaned aloud.
"Use magic, not acrobatics, boy!" Slytherin taunted, shaking his sleeve

back. "Let your corpse be the first thing my fellow founders see when they
join us here! Face me and die with a shred of honor!"
James was terrified. He rolled on the wooden floor and scrambled up,
waving his wand wildly. He pointed it, desperately trying to remember the
incantation. It was one of the first he'd ever learned, but his mind was a
complete blank.
"That's more like it!" Slytherin rasped, striding forward, coming to
meet James. He held his wand casually before him, teasing James with it.
"Do your worst, boy! Show me what they teach you in this fantasy time of
yours! Do it now!"
James blurted the spell the moment it came into his head. Slytherin
spoke his curse at exactly the same time. Both bolts exploded over the
wooden floor, lighting it. Slytherin's green bolt pierced James' oversized
robe, passing right through it and under James' outstretched arm, barely
missing his body. James' yellow bolt struck the lock on the trapdoor. It
unlocked with a burst of sparks and the door flew open, releasing a beam of
light and the sound of voices.
"It's open!" someone cried. "Someone unlocked it from above! Beware
a trap! Protego!"
Slytherin roared in fury. He pointed his own wand at the door, but it
was too late. Figures ran up the stairs from below, wands at the ready.
Spells exploded in all directions, illuminating the tower's peak like
fireworks. James took the opportunity to dive behind the marble throne
again. The air was suddenly full of the hiss and swirl of Slytherin's circle of
nine Disapparating from the top of the tower. One of them remained long
enough to approach James, flourishing his wand. He had a black goatee,
which bristled as the man grinned.
"Nice trick, boy," he growled, "but we detest unfinished business."
James' reflexes had been sharpened by his duel with Slytherin. Even as

the man finished speaking, James whipped his wand around and shouted,
"Expelliarmus!"
There was a sharp crack and the man's wand shot from his hand,
spinning into the darkness beyond the tower wall. The force of the spell
pushed the man backwards. He stumbled and tripped on one of the terraces.
With a roar of anger, he spun to see where his wand had gone. Realizing it
was lost, he turned back, his hands hooked into claws and his face contorted
with rage.
"Stupefy!" James cried, scrambling backwards, but his aim was off.
The spell struck the stone floor to the man's right.
"You'll die for that, boy!" the man roared, pouncing like a beast.
There was a flash of purple light and the man screamed in mid-pounce.
He landed hard in front of James' feet, bringing his face down hard enough
to break his nose. James heard the crunch and grimaced. He scrambled to
his feet, eyes wild, waving his wand crazily.
"Halt, boy!" a voice commanded. A hand suddenly grabbed James'
wrist, bringing it up. James struggled against it for a moment, and then
looked to see whose hand it was. Godric Gryffindor's stern, narrow features
looked down at him.
"The battle is over, my friend," he said, releasing James' wrist.
"Whoever you are, you are one extremely fortunate young wizard."
"He's not just a wizard," a woman's voice said, and there was a hint of
an amused smile in it. James looked and saw Rowena Ravenclaw throw
back the hood of her blue cloak. "He's the youngest cleric in the realm. And
he's tussled with Salazar before."
"Where's he gone?" James suddenly asked, looking around the top of
the tower.
"Vanished," Ravenclaw answered gravely. "Escaped. Assumed his true

form and flown off."
"What's his true form?" James asked, shuddering as his adrenaline
wore off.
"Rowena speaks facetiously," Helga Hufflepuff replied, approaching
the tower's low wall and peering out into the darkness beyond. "Slytherin is
an Animagus. She speaks of his animal self as his true form since she
believes him unworthy of the title of human."
"Is he a snake?" James asked, joining Hufflepuff by the wall and
peering down.
"Curiously, no," Gryffindor answered. "Salazar's true form is perhaps
even more fitting, for he has proven himself to be similarly blind, nocturnal,
and bloodthirsty. Salazar's Animagus is, in fact, a bat."
A groan reminded the assembly of the stricken man with the goatee.
He rolled onto his back and struggled to sit up, one hand clapped over his
nose.
"This man is no danger without his wand," Gryffindor said, "thanks to
our quick-thinking friend here." To the man, he said, "I'd not attempt to
Disapparate if I were you, Lord Morcant. That was more than a Bonelock
Hex I cast on you. It was also a Lanyard Charm. You'd get no further than a
stone's throw before being leashed, and I am told it can be rather painful."
"You broke my nose!" Morcant cried, showing them the palm of his
hand. It was slick with blood. "I'll kill the lot of you! Return me my wand
this instant!"
"I think not, my lord," Ravenclaw replied. "I suspect you won't hold a
wand for quite some time. We have many questions for you, and it'd be best
if you answered them."
"You'll torture me, will you?" Morcant spat, climbing to his feet. "I'm
not afraid of what you'll do to me! I'll never speak. Do your worst!"

"We won't need to torture you," Hufflepuff said reasonably. "If you
choose not to answer our interrogations, we shall simply let you go."
Morcant narrowed his eyes. "How dare you mock me? I know your
kind! Your lies do not deceive me!"
"You know your kind, Morcant," Ravenclaw corrected politely, "and
you assume everyone else is of like mind. We shall indeed release you if
you refuse our questions, and we shall not harm a single hair on that
fetching beard of yours. You should beware however; your release might
result in some people getting the wrong impression. Some observers might
interpret your unscathed release as a sign that you told us absolutely
everything you know."
Gryffindor arched an eyebrow meaningfully. "Your associate, Salazar
Slytherin, would not appreciate that, would he? He has been known to deal
rather harshly with those who betray him."
"He would not believe such lies," Morcant scoffed. "He knows I am
trustworthy. Besides, I am not afraid of him."
Gryffindor approached Morcant and leaned toward him. In a
conspiratorial tone of voice he said, "I hear rumours that Salazar's been
developing a curse that turns his enemies inside out. Technically, I'd say
that was impossible, but Salazar is quite the genius when it comes to such
things. Knowing him, he'll simply continue practicing it until he gets it
right. He's probably hoping you'll betray him, just so he has an excuse to
use you as another test subject."
"He'll trust me!" Morcant insisted again. "He knows I would never
betray him!"
Ravenclaw shrugged. "Salazar never struck me as the trusting type,"
she said, "but perhaps you know him better than we do."
"On the other hand," Hufflepuff mused, "if you do decide to assist us,

we could protect you from any potential reprisals."
Morcant scoffed, and James heard desperation in the man's voice.
"You? Slytherin has twice the power of the rest of you combined!"
Gryffindor smiled. "I'm certain he has convinced even himself of that.
But why, then, did he transform into a flying rodent the moment he
witnessed our approach? Why did he flee rather than face us wand to wand?
Slytherin does not ask himself such questions, but it behooves you, Lord
Morcant, to think about it very carefully."
Morcant scowled furiously. Finally, through gritted teeth he said, "He
means to overthrow the lot of you. He wishes to control the school entirely,
and use it as the seed of a magical empire. He knows you have been
plotting against him. His intent is to strike first."
"How instructive," Gryffindor said grimly. "He believes we have been
plotting against him. But do let us continue this elsewhere. Rowena, Helga,
perhaps you might escort our mysterious young friend back down to the
main castle? I will accompany Lord Morcant to a safe place. We can
palaver there at our leisure."
Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw agreed. A moment later, there was a loud
crack as Gryffindor Disapparated from the tower with Lord Morcant in tow.
"Let us retire to the Great Hall," Ravenclaw said, turning to James and
Hufflepuff. "It should be deserted at this time of night. Perhaps our friend
would like something to eat as we discuss?"
Hufflepuff nodded. "Indeed. We must determine who you are, young
man. And how to return you from whence you came."
"I can't imagine how we'll do that," James replied, remembering the
shattered portal mirror. "My only way home was smashed to bits by
Slytherin. I'm stuck here."
"Surely this is not the case," Ravenclaw said cheerfully. "It may not be

immediately apparent, but the solution shall present itself."
Hufflepuff smiled at James. "The answer is almost always simple,
young man, but rarely is it easy."
James had begun to walk toward the open trapdoor, but he stopped
when Hufflepuff said that. Where had he heard that before? A moment later,
he remembered. Merlin had said something like it in the cave when they'd
gone to get his cache. Doing what is right is nearly always simple, Merlin
had said, but it is never easy. And then, connected to that, James
remembered something else the big wizard had said, later, when they'd all
been in the Headmaster's office, examining his unpacked devices and
curiosities.
James turned on the spot, his eyes wide, wondering. It couldn't be that
simple, could it? He had to find out, and quickly.
"No," James said excitedly, "not the Great Hall. We have to go back to
Slytherin's quarters! Right away, before he comes back!"
Ravenclaw furrowed her brow. "Why in the earth should we go there?"
"And what makes you think he shall return?" Hufflepuff added,
studying James' face.
"Because he'd never leave all his stuff," James answered quickly. "His
'dark trinkets'. They're too important to him. He'll come back for them,
probably right away, before anyone moves any of it. We have to get there
first. If I'm right, he has something really important. It may be my only
chance of getting back to my own time!"
Ravenclaw merely studied James, her eyes serious and thoughtful.
Helga Hufflepuff, however, nodded curtly. She stepped forward, and held
out her hand.
"In that case, dear boy, let us forego the stairs. Rowena, wand at the
ready. If we intend to hurry, then let us hurry like witches, and hope that

Salazar has not already outwitted us this night. On the count of three.
One… two…"

"Three!"
James felt the disorienting jolt of Disapparition again as Hufflepuff
took him away from the Sylvven Tower. A moment later, a dim hallway
appeared around him and his feet hit the stone floor. Almost instantly, there
was a second loud crack and Rowena Ravenclaw appeared next to James
and Hufflepuff. Both women had their wands out. They scanned the hall in
both directions. Without a word, Hufflepuff pointed. James looked. He
recognized this hall as the one that led to Slytherin's quarters. Now, with a
shiver, he saw that the door to the wizard's office was ajar. Light spilled
from it, and there was the clunk of stealthy movement.
"What is your name, young man?" Hufflepuff whispered, not taking
her eyes from the door.
"James Potter," James replied as quietly as he could.
Hufflepuff whispered, "You were right, James. Salazar is here,
returned for his cache, as bold as brass. He knows his time is ended here.
Rowena and I will face him and attempt to reason with him. If we prevail,
we will help you seek what you need. If we are bested, then I am glad to die
knowing the name of our mysterious benefactor."
"You may reason with him if you wish, Helga," Ravenclaw said
quietly, obviously anxious for a fight. "But I will be negotiating with my

wand alone. The sheer bravado of his returning this night, beneath our very
noses!"
"I want to come with you," James whispered, raising his wand. "This is
my fight too. He tried to kill me!"
Ravenclaw narrowed her eyes at James, smiling thinly. "He may well
finish what he started if you accompany us, James Potter. But it is your
choice."
James had expected a bit more resistance than that. He smiled a little
nervously. Honestly, he thought, what was the worst that could happen?
History proved that all four founders survived this night. Of course, as
Slytherin had implied earlier, history didn't say anything whatsoever about a
dark-haired boy who might have been along for the ride.
"I'll lead," Hufflepuff whispered, pointing toward Slytherin's door.
"Rowena, to my left. James, you follow. Stupefy Salazar if necessary, but no
more. Remember that he is still one of the founders of this college, and
deserving of respect."
"Respect be damned the moment he raises his wand," Ravenclaw
muttered as they inched down the hall.
"He sure wasn't using Stunning Spells on the tower," James whispered.
"Just watch for—"
A bolt of green seared the floor next to Ravenclaw's foot.
"Stupefy!" Hufflepuff shouted, aiming her wand at the open door. A
shadow leapt aside as her spell struck the lintel, exploding into red sparks.
"He's wary of us! We must charge him! We're too vulnerable here!"
James struggled to catch up as Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff ran toward
Slytherin's doorway, heads down and wands firing. Red bolts peppered the
doorway, forcing Slytherin back.

"Cease this, Salazar!" Hufflepuff shouted. "It is not yet too late to
abandon this course of action!"
James still had seen nothing of his former captor. As they drove
through the door of his office, ducking for cover behind chairs and a
bookcase, a shadow escaped into a dark doorway, hissing angrily.
"Ware his form!" Ravenclaw cried. "He can be small and winged. He
may hide!"
Hufflepuff peered from around the bookcase, her wand ahead of her.
"He is not in sight. To the inner chamber."
James followed the witches as they moved across the room. He was
amazed at their movement. It was graceful and flitting, remarkably quick
but utterly controlled. Their wand hands preceded them, steady as stone.
James' heart slammed in his chest, making his own wand shake in his hand.
He glanced aside as he passed the double doors of the laboratory. They were
still slightly open, but the space beyond was dark.
"Sweep the room," Ravenclaw said as she moved into Slytherin's inner
sanctum. "Ravaelio!"
A beam of soft lavender light spread from the tip of Ravenclaw's wand,
lighting the wall. Slowly, she moved it all around the room, letting the light
touch every surface. Finally, she lowered her wand, extinguishing the
lavender light.
"He is not hidden here," she said, obviously disappointed. "He has fled
once again, methinks."
James finally took a moment to look around. This was obviously
Slytherin's sleeping quarters. It was surprisingly small and cluttered, with
gothic pillars and buttresses all round it. A single window was securely
closed and locked.

"Let us take advantage of the moment, then," Hufflepuff said, turning
to James. "What is it that you believe Salazar might have in his possession?
What tool might prove helpful to you?"
James tried to explain the age he'd come from, and how he'd arrived in
this century by accidentally wishing himself through the Magic Mirror in
the Headmaster's office. He described appearing through the smaller silverframed mirror hung behind the rotunda statue and its subsequent destruction
by Slytherin.
"I assumed that that had been a Magic Mirror as well," James said.
"But now I don't think so. Slytherin loves things like that; he'd never
destroy something really magical just to keep me here. I think the Amsera
Certh Mirror can see through any mirror, maybe even anything that reflects!
So the mirror behind the statue was just a normal mirror after all."
"That mirror was a remnant from Hadyn's occupation," Ravenclaw
nodded. "There'd be nothing magical about it."
"But Slytherin knew all about travelling through Mirrors," James went
on. "He said that he thought he was only one of two men on earth who
knew about that. And then, just now, when we were up on the Sylvven
Tower, I remembered the Headmaster saying something like that. He said
that his Magic Mirror was one of only two ever made, and that the other
one had belonged to somebody he knew. But now I know who that person
must have been! Slytherin has the other Magic Mirror! The twin of the one
that brought me here!"
Ravenclaw's eyes had grown very sharp and wary. She glanced
meaningfully aside at Hufflepuff.
"Let us search," Hufflepuff said quietly. "Then we shall know for
sure."
Ravenclaw raised her wand and said the same incantation as before.

The lavender light appeared at the end of her wand again. She turned
slowly.
"In my last pass," she muttered, "I was merely searching for sign of
Salazar, either as man or bat. Now…"
Hufflepuff paced around the room, watching the lavender light play on
the walls.
"There," she announced, pointing.
Ravenclaw paused, resting the beam on a very large painting. It was a
full-length portrait of a narrow-faced wizard in burgundy robes, and it was
very nearly life-sized. The portrait slit its eyes at them and scowled. James
saw that as the beam passed over the portrait, it illuminated the faint outline
of a hidden doorway.
Ravenclaw pocketed her wand and stalked across the floor. She
grasped the frame of the painting and pulled, but it was stuck tight to the
wall. Hufflepuff joined her, but they could not move the painting even with
all three of them pulling it.
"No more kid gloves," Ravenclaw said angrily. She stood back,
motioning the others away. She pointed her wand at the portrait.
"Rowena Ravenclaw," the portrait sneered, "you know not what you
are doing—"
"Convulsus!" Rowena cried, interrupting the portrait. There was a
blinding burst of white light and the portrait seemed to vaporize. A moment
later, once James' eyes had readjusted to the relative dimness of the room,
he saw that the portrait had not, in fact, been completely obliterated. The
frame had been destroyed, and the painting had been slashed straight down
the middle leaving a gaping hole. The wooden back of the painting had
been entirely blasted away, lost in the dark space beyond.
James, Hufflepuff, and Ravenclaw approached the slashed portrait

carefully. James, between the two women, could see a sliver of light
winking back at him from the depths beyond the torn canvas. In the
dimness of the hidden chamber, James' own face looked back at him.
"It's there," James breathed, both elated and frightened. "I can see my
reflection. It's the Magic Mirror!"
Hufflepuff illuminated her wand and held it out. Very carefully, she
crept through the shredded painting into the dimness of the chamber behind
it. Her wand lit the space and shone on the mirror's frame. As James entered
the chamber and peered around Hufflepuff, he could see that this mirror was
nearly identical to the one in Merlin's office, except that it stood upright
rather than on its side. Also, there were words engraved on the golden
frame of Slytherin's mirror. The inscription didn't make any sense to James,
but the first word, carved in beautiful, flowing script, was 'Erised'.
"The Mirror," Hufflepuff said simply, her voice awed. "It wasn't
destroyed after all. He had it this whole time."
Ravenclaw's face was flushed with anger. "We should have known.
But what of its Focusing Book? Without it, the Mirror's power is
uncontrollable and capricious, reduced only to its most basic and illusory
functions. We must search for the book."
"Indeed, and search for it we shall, once we have told Godric of this
discovery," Hufflepuff said. "For now, other matters demand our attention.
James has done us a second great service. I suspect he'd prefer to take his
leave if he can."
"I would, if you don't mind," James agreed. "It's been really cool to
meet all of you. Well, most of you. But I'm really anxious to see if I can get
back."
"James Potter," Hufflepuff said, smiling. "We'd have a myriad of
questions for you, not the least of which would be what becomes of us, and
what is this school like in your time. But I strongly suspect that the less we
know of such things, the better."

"There is one question we should ask though, Helga," Ravenclaw said.
She turned to James, her face grim and thoughtful. "If this tale you have
told us is true, and I have no reason to doubt that it is, then the Headmaster
of this college, some thousand years hence, has had collusion in this time
with Salazar Slytherin. James, answer me this one question as truly as you
can. Do you know the real name of this Headmaster of yours?"
"Sure," James said, frowning quizzically. "I thought I'd mentioned him
already. It's Merlin. You'd probably know him as Merlinus Ambrosius. He
came to our time last year, on the night of the alignment of the planets. I
guess you'd call it the Hall of Elders' Crossing. I saw him just this evening.
Well, heard him, actually, when I was trapped in the laboratory. He was
right out there, in Slytherin's office."
Ravenclaw's face had gone very pale. She studied James, and then
turned to look at Hufflepuff.
"He was here this very night," she said quietly. "It is all true. We scarce
believed it."
"And this boy is proof that he succeeded. It is far worse than we
expected. The legend—"
"Hush, Helga," Rowena said gravely. "James needn't hear of the details
of that."
The two women looked at James. In the wandlight, their faces were
very pale and deadly serious.
"Hear me now, James Potter: beware Merlinus," Ravenclaw said,
speaking with great emphasis. "The sorcerer has a glamour that bewitches
those who wish to trust him. If he has achieved the position of Headmaster,
then he has already fooled many. It may even now be too late for your
world. But you may have been sent here this night for a great purpose.
Perhaps you go back to serve as a warning. That which Merlinus bodes
upon your world is an evil like nothing the earth has ever known. The

Gatekeeper of the Void may even now be unleashed, and Merlinus is its
Ambassador. There is no battling the Gatekeeper, but if you can find a way
to destroy the Ambassador, James Potter, you must take it. Do not let him
put his glamour upon you. If the moment comes, it will not be the time for
discourse or hesitation. It will be the time for action. Do you understand?"
James looked intently at Rowena Ravenclaw's earnest, pale face. Even
here, a thousand years away from the events she was describing, she was
clearly terrified. Slowly, James nodded.
"How dare you?!" a voice shrieked suddenly, furiously, making them
all jump. "My chambers! My cache!"
Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw both spun in the confined space of the
hidden chamber. They pointed their wands as a dark figure tore the
decimated portrait away. The voice screamed, and it was chillingly
inhuman. James suddenly remembered the slightly open doors of Slytherin's
laboratory, remembered thinking he should warn Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw
to check there. Slytherin had fooled them with a shadow, and then hidden
there, probably in his bat form. And now, enraged that they had discovered
his greatest secret, he seemed trapped halfway between his forms, half bat
and half man. His voice buzzed hideously. Great, leathery wings flapped
from his hunched back.
"Go James!" Hufflepuff cried, pointing her wand at Slytherin's
grotesque shape. In his blind rage, he beat his enormous batwings, flailing
them against the wall, preventing him from entering. He slavered
monstrously, lunging and snapping his fanged mouth at the women.
"No!" James yelled. "I mean, I don't know how! I can't think!"
A bolt of red seared the air, striking Slytherin's wing. He screamed and
the wing flailed limply.
"Get away from that Mirror!" he screamed, the words sounding alien
in that strange, half-bat mouth. "Touch it and die!"

"Just go!" Ravenclaw urged desperately. "Just as you did before!"
Slytherin lunged again, finally forcing his way through the decimated
portrait hole. Both Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw shot him with Stunning
Spells, but in his mutated form, they only slightly weakened him. He
snapped and roared at them.
James turned away and flung himself against the Mirror. The moment
he touched it, the reflection sank away, revealing the familiar silvery smoke.
It swirled dizzyingly before James' face.
"Go, James!" Hufflepuff cried. There was a whoosh and a horrid
slashing sound. One of the witches screamed, but James couldn't tell which.
"I wish I was anywhere else!" James said aloud, then, panicked, he
amended that. "I wish I was home! I wish I was in my own time! Right
now!"
Directly behind him, Slytherin roared, his voice both human and
beastly. James felt the air of Slytherin's beating wings and sensed the
coming slash of the bat-like talons.
And then all of it was gone. The hidden chamber winked away, sucked
into the swirling silvery mists. James felt the same odd sensation of
flipping, as if he was being reversed through the Mirror. There was a rush
of noise and speed, and then he was falling. He tumbled forward, catching
himself on his hands and knees, and his wand clattered to the ground in
front of him.
James looked up. He was in a small dim room. It seemed to be full of
dusty trunks and stacked crates. He scrambled around, looking back in the
direction from which he'd stumbled.
There, looking exactly the same but for a thick coating of dust, was
Slytherin's Magic Mirror. The first word of the now-ancient inscription was
still plainly visible: 'Erised'.

"James?" a girl's voice asked, startling him. "Is it you? It is! Wake up,
you two! It happened!"
"Rose?" James asked, completely perplexed. She appeared from the
shadows near the door, disheveled and covered with cobwebs. James
blinked at her. "What are you doing here? Where am I?"
Ralph was climbing sleepily to his feet. "It's the middle of the bloody
night. What else matters?"
"He knew!" Rose said, almost hopping with excitement. "He said
you'd turn back up here if we made the Mirror ready, and you did! The three
of us have been waiting here ever since dinner! We've been worried sick!
James, what happened? Where have you been!?"
"Wait a minute," James said, climbing to his feet. "How'd Ralph know
I would be showing up here? Nobody could possibly have known that."
"Not me," Ralph said sleepily, clapping James on the shoulder,
"although I'd love to take credit for it. No, this was all his idea."
Ralph hooked a thumb over his shoulder. James looked and saw the
boy getting slowly to his feet, a tired, crooked smile on his face.
"About time, Potter," Scorpius drawled. "Have a nice little trip?"

12. QUESTIONS OF TRUST
James insisted that, curious as everyone was, he was too exhausted for
lengthy explanations. He told them merely that he'd travelled back to the
time of the founders, and that he'd discovered far more than he intended
about Merlin. He promised to explain everything in detail the next morning,
which was Saturday. Reluctantly, the others agreed, and the four students
crept out of the storage room. James allowed Ralph and Scorpius to lead the
way through the dark corridors, returning to the main hall.
"You actually met the founders?" Rose demanded in a hoarse whisper,
refusing to wait for details.
James nodded wearily. "I did. They were a lot more… real… than I
ever imagined."

Rose shook her head wonderingly. "What was Helga Hufflepuff like?
She's the one we hear the least about."
"She was tough," James said, "but nice. She wanted to talk things out
with Slytherin even after he'd tried to kill the lot of us. But she wasn't a
pushover. None of them were. They were hardcore. I'll tell you more
tomorrow. How'd you all know I'd gone missing?"
"Well, it's been a whole day, hasn't it?" Ralph said in a whisper.
"Besides, Cedric woke me up in the middle of the night last night. He told
me exactly what happened. He thinks Merlin had bewitched the gargoyle to
alert him, somehow, anytime somebody used the password to go up to the
Headmaster's office. Merlin's been stalking all over the school, obviously
mad as a hornet, but he hasn't said anything. Rose thinks he's been looking
for something."
"I think he was looking for the Mirror of Erised!" Rose interjected. "I
bet he sensed it was here, hidden away somewhere but couldn't find it. It's
protected from discovery somehow. I bet it's got him in a total lather!"
"So how did you all find it?" James asked as they reached the stairs.
Ralph looked at Scorpius, who shrugged.
"I knew where to look," the pale boy said. "And when. More or less."
The four stopped at the base of the dark staircases. On the closest
landing, the Heracles window had once again changed, Heracles' face
reverting back to the caricature of Scorpius. Filch would be fuming.
James shook his head. "I just can't work it out, Scorpius. How could
you possibly know?"
Scorpius drew a deep sigh. "I was told. My father knew all about it.
He's been studying the writings of the founders for years. It's a sort of
hobby of his. He wanted to learn about Salazar Slytherin, mainly, to see

what he was really like, but then he got interested in the journals of Rowena
Ravenclaw. She wrote down absolutely everything. Father worked out some
of the clues and codes of Ravenclaw's diaries. Apparently, she intended for
them to be discovered. She describes a boy who visited her and the other
founders, a boy supposedly from the distant future. She discovered that if
he was to succeed in returning through the right Mirror, someone would
have to prepare it on this side, in this time. She'd determined it was her duty
to make sure that happened, so she developed the codex and left clues for
the right person to figure it all out. My father was apparently that person.
The clues gave a timeframe and instructions."
James' head was spinning. "But how could she work that out? How
could she know an exact timeframe?"
Scorpius shrugged. "That's a question for my father. I can't imagine
why it'd matter. The fact is that she did work it out."
"It's obvious," Rose whispered. "You must have told her the time you
came from. You must have given clues."
"I didn't tell them anything like that!" James said, but then a thought
occurred to him. "I did tell them about Merlin's reappearance though. I told
them it happened a year ago, on the night of the alignment of the planets."
"That's almost all she'd need," Rose replied. "They knew how to track
those kinds of events. She probably factored out the exact date of the
alignment, then added in loads of other clues you'd mentioned, like the day
of the week or the month, the time during the school term, even the phase of
the moon. She was dead smart, you know!"
James nodded. "No doubt about that. But still, how did you find the
Mirror if Merlin can't even find it?"
Rose interrupted Scorpius, "Ravenclaw gave a sort of magical map!
She embedded an enchanted signal in the Mirror of Erised, and listed the
spell required to locate the signal. All we had to do then was follow it.
When we found it, we were simply to touch the Mirror and wish for lost

items to be returned to us. That's what we did, and then we just waited.
Finally, bang! Here you are again!"
"Pretty neat, eh?" Ralph whispered, grinning. "And all because of
Scorpius here. Or his dad, actually."
Scorpius rolled his eyes. "If we're done congratulating ourselves, I've
got plans in the morning. You three can stay here and get cornered by
Filch's ancient Kneazle-cat if you wish, but I'm off to bed." He turned and
began to creep up the stairs.
James said goodnight to Ralph, then followed Scorpius up the stairs,
Rose at his side.
As the three passed through the portrait hole into the Gryffindor
common room, Rose smiled tiredly at James.
"I'm glad you made it back, James. We didn't know where you'd really
gone, or if Scorpius' information was correct. I was really scared. I thought
maybe Merlin had gotten you somehow."
James furrowed his brow, thinking of the words Rowena Ravenclaw
had said to him, urging James not to be taken in by Merlin, warning him he
might have to confront the sorcerer if the moment was right. He tried to
smile gamely at Rose.
"I'm fine," he said. "But it was close. I'll tell you all about it tomorrow.
I'll tell you everything, if you really want to know. For now, let's sleep. I'm
nearly dead on my feet."
They said goodnight and climbed their respective staircases. When
James got to the darkened dormitory, Scorpius was already in his bed, his
back to James.
James' pilfered cleric robe had not come through the Mirror with him,
so he was still dressed in his stripy pyjamas. Wearily, he put his glasses and

his wand back in his bag and climbed into bed. He lay there a moment, and
then sat up.
"Scorpius," he whispered. The boy didn't move, but James knew he
was listening. "I don't know why you helped me, but thanks."
James lay back down. A minute went by and James was nearly asleep
when he heard Scorpius move. Out of the darkness, the boy replied in a
whisper, "Don't thank me yet, Potter. The time may come when you'll wish
you'd never made it back. The time may come when you'll curse me for
helping you."

James slept very late the next morning and awoke to a bright glare of
snow and frost on the dormitory window. He washed, dressed, and clumped
downstairs, looking for his friends. Eventually, he found Rose and Ralph in
the library, arguing quietly over one of Professor Revalvier's homework
questions.
"You two are pathetic," James said. "Doing homework on a Saturday
morning."
"Technically, it's hardly morning anymore," Rose replied. "We've been
waiting for you. We're dying to know what happened yesterday."
Ralph closed his book with a thump. "Besides, it's dead cold outside.
Even the lake's freezing over. All the older years are mooning around trying
to figure out who to go to the Yule Ball with. There's nothing else to do. By
the way, did you get Zane's duck?"

James blinked. "When? The other night?"
"No, early this morning. Er, last night, by his time. He wants to hear
about what happened to you, too. He said we should duck him back when
you're ready to talk about it and tell him where to meet us."
James shook his head and smiled. "That's crazy!"
"That's Zane," Ralph shrugged.
"What about Scorpius?" James asked reluctantly. "Should we include
him?"
Rose looked uncomfortable. "He says he knows everything he needs to
know about it already."
"Whatever that means," Ralph added. "Oh yeah, that reminds me. You
got something called a 'Howler' yesterday morning."
"What?" James said, frowning. "A Howler? From who?"
"Your mum," Rose answered. "It was delivered during breakfast, but
you weren't there to open it. We tried to get it out of the Great Hall, but it
went off before we could. I'm afraid everybody heard it. You really could've
told us, James."
"What are you talking about?" James exclaimed. "What did the Howler
say?"
Rose studied James' face. "You really don't know?"
"Bloody hell, Rose, you're killing me here! What did it say?"
"It was your mum's voice," Ralph said. "She was really mad, and loud
as a trumpet. She said she couldn't really blame you for taking them last
year because you were just being your father's son, but she'd hoped you'd

learned your lesson. She said that they were dangerous, and what's more,
that they belong to your father, and he was also pretty disappointed in you
for nicking them again. Then she said that she hoped everyone was hearing
it, including the teachers, so they'd all know that you were sneaking around
with the Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder's Map, and that they should
put a stop to it."
James spluttered, speechless. "But—but I didn't take them! They're
still at home in Dad's trunk! I haven't touched them since last year!"
"Well," Rose said, pointing out the obvious, "they aren't at home in
your dad's trunk even if you didn't take them. They've gone missing and
your mum seemed pretty certain that you were the one who'd done it."
James felt both angry and hurt. How could she just accuse him like
that? Sure, he'd borrowed the Cloak and the map last year, but he'd had very
good reasons for it. He'd accepted his punishment, hadn't he? He didn't have
any plans of borrowing the Cloak and map at all this year. But who could
have taken them, then? And then, with a start, James remembered the
morning they'd left for the train when Albus had been mysteriously late
about packing his trunk.
"That little Skrewt!" James breathed, furious.
"What?" Rose asked. "Who?"
"Albus! The little Slytherin imp! He stole them! It had to have been
him! The morning we left for the train, he was moping around, half-packed.
Then, all of a sudden he left the room for a few minutes. Mum and Dad
were downstairs getting the car around. He must have sneaked into their
room and stolen the Cloak and the map out of Dad's trunk. He knew they'd
blame me!"
"You can't know that," Rose admonished.
"I can't," James agreed, nodding. "But I do. Just wait until I get my

hands on him. I'll make him send an owl to Mum and Dad confessing the
whole thing. See if I don't."
"In the meantime," Ralph interjected, "we're still dying to hear about
your wild adventure yesterday. Can we put this little detail behind us for the
moment?"
James was still seething, but he agreed. He'd just have to see if he
could track Albus down later that afternoon. Maybe he'd take Ralph up on
his offer to escort him down to the Slytherin common room.
Ralph went on, "We've been thinking about it and we've come up with
a great place to meet Zane and hear your story. Go grab your cloak and
meet us by the rotunda entrance. And bring your wand."
A few minutes later, James once again met Ralph and Rose by the
broken remains of the founders' statues. The huge rotunda gates had been
closed against the wintry day, but a small door set into the left gate
remained unlocked. Rose led them to it.
As James crossed the marble floor, he felt very strange. He
remembered the statues as he'd last seen them, intact and new. He looked up
as he passed through the main arch. The engraved name of the school was
worn, almost lost in the dim recesses of the vaulted ceiling. James imagined
that if he went over to the statue plinth, he might still find bits of the broken
silver-framed mirror in the cracks of the floor. He shivered.
As they went through the tiny doorway, the three students squinted in
the blinding, snowy brightness of the day. The lake was indeed half-frozen,
with white edge-ice fading to black near the center where waves lapped
onto the brittle surface. The wind was bitter and harsh, carrying flecks of
snow like sand. None of the three spoke as they worked their way around
the castle, huddled against the cold, and James was amused to see that they
were walking toward the ancient stone barn in which Hagrid housed his
menagerie.
"It'll be warm in here," Ralph called, yanking the main door open.

"And we can be pretty sure nobody else will come out here today. Too
bitter!"
It was indeed quite warm in the barn, thanks to Norberta's occasional
flamings. Wall-mounted lanterns lit the dirt floor gaily, contrasting against
the cold, white light which streamed through the barn's small windows. The
beasts in their cages snuffled and barked as the students passed.
"There're benches over by the larger pens," Rose pointed out. "Let's
have a seat. I've packed a flask of hot chocolate and some Cockroach
Clusters."
"Blimey, Rose," Ralph said appreciatively. "You think of everything!"
Rose unpacked her bag, setting out the flask and some cups. "Too bad
for Zane," she commented. "He can't have any, not really being here."
"I brought my own," Zane said happily, appearing in midair between
them. The three students jumped back, and then looked up at the suspended
shape. Zane floated two feet off the ground, apparently seated on nothing
and happily munching a chunk of sausage on a fork. "It's barely breakfast
here, you know, and I'm not normally a morning person. But I wouldn't
miss this for anything. Good to see you made it back, James."
"Er, thanks," James replied. "But this is a little weird. You're, er, off a
bit."
Zane glanced around, munching the sausage. "Ah, yeah. Hey, Raphael,
what do we do when the Doppelganger insists on levitating?"
There was a pause as Zane listened. He nodded. "Sorry, guys. It's
apparently part of the Doppelganger's basic intuition. It wants to make the
apparition float. It's supposed to be creepier that way. Maybe it'll calm
down in a little while if it gets bored."
"You've harnessed a Doppelganger of yourself and are using it to
project messages?" Rose said incredulously.

"You didn't explain it to her?" Zane asked, looking at James. "She's
pretty quick though, isn't she?"
"But that's patently and completely impossible!" Rose spluttered.
"Doppelgangers are just myths! This is worse than the bit about the Chaos
Butterfly!"
"It's a little late to be claiming it won't work, Rosie," Ralph said,
munching a Cockroach Cluster.
"We can maintain this as long as we need to," Zane said, putting his
fork down. It seemed to float alongside him, unsupported. "Just so long as
you occasionally shoot me with a Stinging Hex or something, just to boost
the magic a little. Truth is: Franklyn's glad for the testing time. So go to it,
James. Tell us all about your adventures in the Stone Age."
James plunged into his tale, trying to remember everything. He
explained his trip through the Mirror, and where he'd ended up, becoming,
against all probability, the mysterious 'ghost in the plinth' as Ashley Doone
had joked. This required a little further explanation as Zane had never seen
the photo of the founders nor heard of the conspiracies about the shadowy
face hidden in the background. James then went on to explain his capture at
the hands of Salazar Slytherin, and the subsequent overheard conversation
between Slytherin and the Merlin of that time. He described the duel on top
of the Sylvven Tower, and the adventure of finding Slytherin's twin of
Merlin's Amsera Certh. Finally, he relayed the words of Rowena
Ravenclaw, warning what Merlin's return meant and how he was the
Ambassador of the Gatekeeper. To cement her words, James produced the
tabloid clipping Lucy had sent, obviously alluding to the work of the
horrible entity.
By the time James had finished, the hot chocolate and Cockroach
Clusters were long gone, and the three had had to shoot Stinging Hexes at
Zane nearly a dozen times.
"Sounds like there was something going on with that Mirror back in

the founders' day," Zane commented, "based on the way Hufflepuff and
Ravenclaw responded when you found it."
"It does," Rose agreed. "It sounds like they'd known about it but
believed it had been destroyed somehow. Obviously, Slytherin staged that
so he could hoard the Mirror for himself. In the end though, the other
founders got it back, but without the Focusing Book, apparently, which
Slytherin had probably hidden elsewhere. James, you affected history!"
"He couldn't have," Ralph said, frowning. "Obviously they'd captured
the Mirror of Erised back from Slytherin even before James went back in
time. It figures pretty importantly in your dad's story, doesn't it, James?"
James nodded. "Yeah, I've heard him talk about it lots of times. He saw
his dead parents in that Mirror. It really meant a lot to him. Almost too
much, according to Dumbledore."
"This is why Time-Turners have been outlawed," Rose sniffed. "Time
travel is just too complicated and weird. If James travelled back in time,
then I guess it stands to reason that he'd existed in the past all along. He was
the reason the Mirror was captured back from Slytherin on the night he was
found out. That's why his face appeared in the shadows of the founders'
photograph even before he went back."
Ralph screwed his face up in concentration. "That doesn't make any
sense at all."
"No, using Doppelgangers to relay personal messages doesn't make
any sense," Rose replied, glancing aside at the floating figure of Zane. "This
is just improbable and complicated."
"But we did learn what we needed to know about Merlin," James said
sadly. "We can't trust him. He's the Ambassador of this Gatekeeper creature.
We might even have to fight him if we hope to send it back."
"Not me," Ralph said vigorously. "I've got part of his staff as my wand.
It'd probably turn on me!"

Rose shook her head. "It doesn't work that way, Ralph. It's yours now.
It obeys the wizard that wins it."
"It may not come to fighting Merlin," Zane said, his expression
thoughtful. "It sounded like Merlin wasn't really excited about the descent
of the Gatekeeper, but he knew it was possible. He took the Beacon stone
from Slytherin so he could control it if it followed him back. Maybe he
means to send it back. After all, like I said before, the fact that you three are
still breathing means he can't be all evil. He knows you know. Especially
now."
"He only has half of the Beacon stone," Rose replied. "Slytherin had
the other half. He meant to pass it on, so that whoever was still alive when
the Curse descended would be able to control it. The fact is that neither
Merlin nor this other person can control the Gatekeeper completely.
Somebody would have to put both rings together to banish the Gatekeeper
back to the Void."
"Or to unleash it fully on the world," Ralph shuddered. "This thing's
out there even now? That's what we saw that day in the Magic Mirror
talking to Voldemort's grave statue, isn't it? It's already happening!"
"So maybe Merlin's trying to find the other half of the stone," Zane
mused. "I just can't buy that he's gone over to the dark side."
"He wouldn't need to 'go over'," James said suddenly. "Ravenclaw said
he was dead dangerous! Rose was right; Merlin was just a magical
mercenary. He only stopped killing and cursing for hire when he fell in love
with the Lady of the Lake. Then that turned out completely horrible and
Merlin went mad with revenge. He ended up killing her without even
knowing it! After that, he hated the whole world, magic and Muggle alike,
so he took Slytherin's Beacon Stone and allowed the descent of the one
creature who could end it all! We're fooling ourselves if we don't believe
that."
Zane shook his head gravely. "I hope you're wrong, James, but if you

aren't, you three better be very careful."
"The whole world better be careful," James answered morosely. "Not
that it'll matter much. There's only one thing we can do to help now."
"What's that?" Rose asked.
"Watch Merlin," James answered meaningfully. "And try to find the
two halves of the Beacon Stone."

With the Christmas holiday fast approaching, James found time
slipping by in a blur. He had been determined to ask Ralph to take him
down to the Slytherin common room so James could confront Albus about
the missing Invisibility Cloak and Marauder's Map, but each evening
seemed to magically fill up with homework and studying, preparations for
the week's Defence Club meeting, play rehearsals, and costume fittings.
By the evening of the last Quidditch match of the year, James had still
not spoken to Albus. He determined he would do it that night after the
match. As an early winter dusk descended over the grounds, dark, ominous
clouds were pushing in from the east. By the time James and Rose were
sidling into their seats in the Gryffindor grandstand, fat snowflakes had
begun to fall. The snow made a thick, white curtain, transforming the pitch
into a ghostly shadow play. Across the pitch, the Slytherin grandstand was
nothing but a tall grey monolith.
The players streaked from their holding pens, foregoing the traditional
displays of aerial acrobatics for fear that they might crash into one another
in the fog of snow even before the match began. Far below, barely visible,

Gryffindor Captain Devindar Das shook hands with Tabitha Corsica,
Slytherin's Captain. Shortly thereafter, the two captains kicked off, joining
their teams in the air. Cabe Ridcully, the match official, released the
Bludgers and Snitch and tossed the Quaffle into the waiting team
formations. The teams sprang into action and the match was underway.
James found it a very difficult match to watch, and not just because of
the thick, blinding snowfall. He was still smarting from his failure to make
the team for the second year in a row, and especially because he'd simply
been too distracted to remember when try-outs were. He cursed himself
repeatedly, thinking it should be him out there facing off against Albus as
Seeker. It was nothing short of completely humiliating that Albus was
showing him up on the broom. Fortunately, being a Gryffindor, James could
legitimately cheer for Albus' opponents without it seeming like sour grapes.
When Noah swatted a well-placed Bludger at Albus, striking him in the
back and nearly throwing him off his broom, James leapt to his feet,
hooting derisively. A moment later, he felt slightly guilty. Then he
remembered that, most likely, Al had nicked the Invisibility Cloak and
Marauder's Map and left James to take the blame for it. He hooted some
more, shouting for Noah to aim for the head next time.
In the end, despite a very closely played match, Gryffindor had won.
Tara Umar, Gryffindor's Seeker, did a victory lap around the grandstands,
Snitch held high, while the air rang with cheers and raucous commotion.
James clumped down the stairs two at a time, meaning to catch Albus
while he was still on the field. He ran out onto the snow-dusted grass,
looking left and right for his brother. Finally, he saw him with his broom
slung over his shoulder and his head down, apparently in deep conversation
with Tabitha Corsica and Philia Goyle. Feeling a mixture of triumphant
spite and righteous anger, James charged directly toward them.
"We have to talk, Albus," he yelled over the noise of the departing
crowd. "Mum sent me a Howler that should've been addressed to you, you
know."
Albus didn't respond, but Tabitha and Philia looked up. Philia scowled

at James, but Tabitha's eyes were strangely bright and expressionless. She
saw James approaching but didn't say anything.
James stopped a few feet away, his face going red. He had the distinct
impression that he was interrupting something, and felt infuriatingly
awkward. He was supposed to have the upper hand in this situation, wasn't
he? He cleared his throat loudly.
"I hear you," Albus declared without turning around. Tabitha glanced
away, out into the strangely silent snowfall. After a moment, she took
Albus' broom and walked slowly toward the Slytherin holding pen. Philia
followed, throwing a black look back in James' direction.
"Your timing is pretty rotten, James," Albus said, turning around but
not raising his eyes.
"Well, I'm terribly sorry. Shall I make an appointment with your
scheduler? I assume 'Tabby' would be in charge of that, yes?"
"This isn't about me, you prat," Albus said, finally looking at James.
"Tabitha is going through a very hard time. The loss tonight is sort of the
last straw. It meant a lot to her. But I'm sure you couldn't care less about
that. You only care when Gryffindors have problems."
James narrowed his eyes and spread his hands. "What are you talking
about, Al? I've hardly seen a speck of you ever since you disappeared into
that Slytherin dungeon! So who exactly doesn't care what's going on outside
his own house, eh? And not that you'd care, but I have very good reasons
for hating that two-faced viper! Where were you last year when she was
calling our Dad a liar and a fraud?"
Albus shook his head, not meeting James' eyes. "That was then. The
point is, James, you're a Gryffindor. You just don't understand the way she
grew up and the things she's had to deal with. Of course I don't agree with
everything they say down there, but you have to understand the way they've
been taught. They have reasons for being angry. Especially Tabitha."

James could barely listen. He stomped his foot on the field and nearly
cursed. "It doesn't matter! Albus, they're just using you. How can you not
see it? They don't have hearts! They don't care about you. Especially that
silver-tongued minx. You'll regret ever being taken in by them! And don't
say I didn't warn you."
Albus lowered his brow and looked hard at James. "I promise I'll never
say you didn't warn me, James. But I'll tell you right now that Tabitha has
never talked to me the way you're talking to me right now. Nor has she ever
talked about you the way you're talking about her. She's my friend. And to
be honest, she needs friends right now—a lot more than I need a brother."
James wanted to spit with rage. How could Albus be so completely
obtuse? Albus stared at him as if he was simply waiting for James to go
away.
"You took the Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder's Map," James
finally said, resorting to the one thing he knew he could feel indignant
about.
Albus' face changed. He looked truly puzzled and a little wary. "What
are you talking about, James?"
"Don't play all innocent with me, Al. You heard the Howler Mum sent
me. Rose said everyone in the Great Hall heard it the other day at breakfast.
She thinks I stole them, just because I borrowed them last year. You have to
tell Mum the truth."
"What truth, James?" Albus said, angry and exasperated. "You do have
them! You must! I didn't take them!"
"Of course you did! Don't lie to me! I can always tell!"
"Well, then maybe you don't know me like you think you do! Don't pin
this on me, James. I'm not letting you make me into the bad guy just
because you hate that I'm a Slytherin."

James spluttered. "What? That has nothing to do with it! I just don't
want Mum to think—"
"It has everything to do with it!" Albus yelled, and his voice sounded
oddly flat in the thick curtain of snow. The pitch was nearly empty now
except for the two boys. "You were so worried about getting into Gryffindor
so you could be like dear old Dad and Mum. You tried so hard that you
wouldn't let yourself be you! Well, I'm being me, and only me. Albus
Severus Potter, Slytherin. You can be jealous all you want, but don't try to
ruin it for me! I've been warned that you'll try. But believe me, you'll be
sorry if you do."
Albus turned and stalked away, disappearing quickly into the dense
snow.
"Al, wait!" James called, starting to follow his brother. He stopped
after a few steps. "Look, Al, that came out totally wrong. I don't know what
to say to all that, but blimey, there's no reason we need to go to war, is
there? We can't let something stupid like our houses come between us."
James could see that Albus had stopped. He was barely a grey shape in
the silent snowfall. "You're the one making it a problem, James."
"Look," James said awkwardly, "forget it, all right? But honestly…
you really didn't take the map and Cloak?"
Albus' grey shape stood silently, looking back at James. He seemed to
shake his head, but James couldn't be sure. Then Albus said, "Are you
going to go home for the holiday?"
James blinked. "Why wouldn't I?"
"Mum obviously thinks we talk more than we do," Albus said, as if in
explanation. "She sent me a letter the day you got the Howler. The Burrow's
been sold. The family is moving everything out over the holiday. It's the
only time everybody is available to help. Makes for a pretty awful holiday,

though. I told Mum I'm staying here. I don't want to see Granddad's world
taken apart bit by bit."
James felt as if he'd been punched in the stomach. "They sold the
Burrow?"
The hazy silhouette of Albus seemed to nod this time. "Some old
couple by the name of Templeton bought it. Not Muggles at least. They're
going to tear it down and build a little summer cottage on the property.
Mum says at least they're keeping the orchard."
There was a long silence between the two brothers. Finally, James said,
"I didn't know. Mum didn't say anything to me."
"Like I said, she thought I'd tell you. And I just did. I'm not going
home for that. Happy bloody Christmas, eh?"
James couldn't help chuckling a little hollowly. "Go talk to Tabitha, Al.
We'll figure everything out later."
Without a word, Albus turned and vanished completely into the snow.
James looked around. The grandstands were almost completely invisible.
He seemed to stand in an island of snow-covered grass, surrounded by
silently falling flakes. In the darkness, the curtain of snow looked more like
ash. James brushed off his shoulders, sighed, and trudged off the pitch.

Rose was equally upset about the sale of the Burrow, but she seemed
to reluctantly understand the necessity of it. Together, she and James
determined they would also stay at Hogwarts over the holiday. She even

managed to make it seem like it might be a fun adventure. She immediately
wrote a short letter to her parents asking if it would be all right for her to
stay over. James added a note to Rose's letter, asking Aunt Hermione to
pass the word on to his mum and dad that he'd decided to stay over as well,
as had Albus.
"They'll let us, of course," Rose nodded as she sealed the letter. "They
know it'd be awful to see the place broken up over the holiday, especially
since we've all spent so many happy Christmases there. Honestly, it'll
probably be easier for them to manage if we aren't around anyway."
As a distraction, James returned his attention to the threat of the
Gatekeeper and the mystery of Merlin's involvement. He reminded Ralph
and Rose that they were to be looking for the two Beacon Stones. He knew
they might be very difficult to trace, but as it turned out, the first half of the
Beacon Stone was very easy to locate.
James, Ralph, and Rose were taking notes in the last Wizlit class
before Christmas holiday when Merlin knocked peremptorily on the door,
interrupting Professor Revalvier.
"Ah, Headmaster," Revalvier said, smiling. "We were just speaking of
you, in a sense. You do tend to crop up from time to time in the books of the
kings, although in a much exaggerated manner, I am sure."
Merlin approached the professor's desk. "Indeed. It is that very detail
that I've come to discuss, briefly, if I may."
The Headmaster lowered his voice so that only Revalvier could hear
him. The class sensed an unattended moment, and immediately fell to
hushed conversations and shuffling of papers, preparing to dismiss for
lunch.
Rose nudged James hard with her elbow. James looked over at her,
irritated, and then saw her wide eyes and furtive glance. He followed her
gesture. Merlin was standing very close to Professor Revalvier, whose smile
had vanished. The Headmaster's hand hung at his side, very large and

powerful-looking. He didn't have his staff with him, but that didn't mean
anything. Merlin seemed able to produce it as necessary, as if he kept it in
an invisible closet that followed him wherever he went.
"What?" James whispered, not seeing what Rose was hinting at. Then,
with a start, he saw the black ring on Merlin's hand. It sparkled dully, as if it
reflected light only reluctantly. He shouldn't have been surprised. He'd been
there on the night a thousand years ago when Salazar Slytherin had
presented the ring to Merlin. And yet seeing it now, glinting evilly on the
sorcerer's finger, made it all too real. Up until now, he'd been able to halfconvince himself that it had all been a sort of dream.
Revalvier nodded curtly, obviously unhappy with what Merlin had said
to her. Merlin turned and left the room without sparing a glance at the class.
"It seems that there is to be a slight change in this holiday's reading
assignment," Revalvier said, closing the book on her desk. "The
Headmaster feels it would be more beneficial for us to skip the last century
of the Dark Ages and proceed directly to the Renaissance. He may have a
point. The Renaissance is, as its name implies, the golden age of wizarding
literature. Thus, you may disregard the rest of the current chapter in your
textbooks and omit Hrung Hrynddvane from your holiday reading
assignment. Perhaps you'll choose to spend that time getting an early start
on Waddeljav's Book of Nameless Tales. If so, do keep a written record of
the actual story names since they will surely change by the time we
reconvene."
As the class clambered toward the door, Rose pushed in between
James and Ralph. "Did you see it?" she whispered.
"Yeah," Ralph replied. "I guess there's no doubt about Merlin and this
Gatekeeper thing anymore, is there? Why do you suppose he doesn't want
us reading Hrynddvane's chronicles?"
"It's obvious," James said in a low voice. "He knows there are things in
there about him. He's trying to manage everybody's perceptions about the
kind of wizard he is. Revalvier can tell us all she wants about how those

histories are exaggerated into legends, but if people keep reading about how
Merlin buried this army and flooded that camp and whatever else, there are
bound to be people who start to question him. Like Ravenclaw said, he has
a way of entrancing people who want to trust him. He needs to make sure
everyone keeps wanting to think he's all noble and good."
As the three crossed the library, Ralph angled into a narrow aisle,
turning to face James and Rose. "So if Merlin has the stone, does that mean
we're all done for?"
"Not exactly," Rose said. "Remember, there were two rings, each with
half of the Beacon Stone. Whoever has the other ring also has some
influence over the Gatekeeper. As long as Merlin doesn't have both halves,
he can't fully control it."
"So our only hope is that the other half of the stone is in the right
hands," James replied. "As long as one keeper of the stone is trying to hold
the Gatekeeper back, its power will be limited."
Rose looked worried. "For a while, yes. I hadn't had a chance to tell
you what I've learned since we last talked about it. According to all the
legends, once the Gatekeeper finds a human host—a host who has willingly
killed to prove their worthiness—the stones won't influence it at all
anymore. The Beacon Stone is the Gatekeeper's foothold in this world, but
only until it becomes one with its human host. When that happens, it won't
need the stones. Nothing will be able to send it back to the Void."
"When did you read this?" Ralph asked, his face going pale.
"Last night. I've been studying everything I can find about the Curse of
the Gatekeeper. I compared notes with Cousin Lucy by owl, and she's right.
A lot of it is pretty horrible and fantastic, but all the writings agree on the
main details: The Beacon Stone summons the Gatekeeper when the bearer
suspends in the Void for a long enough time; the Gatekeeper follows the
bearer of the stone into our world, and the bearer becomes its Ambassador;
the Ambassador can use the Beacon Stone to send the Gatekeeper back to
the Void, but only as long as the Gatekeeper hasn't entered its human host.

Once that happens, the Beacon Stone is useless and the Curse of the
Gatekeeper is unleashed on the earth. When that happens, nothing can stop
it."
James frowned, trying to examine the legend from every angle. "So
since the stone's been split in two, neither of the bearers can send it back
even if they wanted to."
"But what does the Gatekeeper want?" Ralph asked Rose. "Why does
it want to destroy everything?"
Rose's face had also gone pale. "It's really very simple. It hates us
because we aren't it. It has always believed it was the only living thing.
Now that it has discovered the world of humans, it refuses to share
existence with us. Also, even more awful, it feeds on despair and agony like
the world's hungriest and most powerful Dementor. But where Dementors
only call up your own memories of the worst things that have ever
happened to you, the Gatekeeper creates all new feelings. It can manipulate
a person's mind at the most basic level, creating raw, sourceless panic and
terror. That's what we read about in the tabloid article Lucy sent us. It was
trying to figure those humans out, trying to work out the best way to
produce what it hungers for. For now, it can only affect a few humans at
once. But once it connects with its human host and becomes a part of the
community of mankind, it'll be able to affect thousands and millions at
once. It'll just suck the terror out of everyone until there's nothing left of
them, then leave them like husks and move on. It'll move over the earth
doing that until there's no one left at all."
"No one but the host," Ralph squeaked.
"Not even the host," Rose whispered. "In the end, it'll turn on them
too. It wishes to be entirely alone. In the end, it'll break its own tool. The
scariest thing is that the host may even know it. The host may be so full of
pain and sadness and hate that they won't care. They may even wish for it."
Something had pricked James' memory. Rose saw it on his face.
"What, James? You look like you just swallowed a hippogriff egg."

"My dream," James replied, touching his forehead. "What you're
saying sounds a lot like the words of the voice in my dream. There's this
black robed figure standing in the corner, talking all the time, telling the
person in my dream that justice will be served, and the day of balance is
coming, and it always says that the person in my dream is to be the hand
that brings it about if they are willing, if they are up to the task that will
prove their worth. And the person in my dream does seem to be willing.
They seem to be very sad and very angry, all at the same time. It's as if
they've felt a loss so great that it makes the whole world meaningless.
Worse, that the whole world shouldn't even exist anymore, because it's the
world their tragedy happened in. It's a very vengeful, hateful, hopeless
feeling, but mostly, it's just sad, so sad that it's like a black wall that goes on
forever with no gate or corners or top to climb over."
"Maybe the person in your dream is meant to be the host of the
Gatekeeper," Ralph said, his eyes wide. "It almost sounds like Merlin,
doesn't it? I mean, he ended up killing the woman he loved most in all the
world. You said he left his own time because he couldn't bear to live in it
anymore, knowing what he'd done, right? Maybe coming to this time isn't
any better for him! Maybe he'd be happy to let the Gatekeeper destroy
everything and everyone, even himself!"
Rose nodded slowly. "It does certainly sound like what he might be
feeling. The Gatekeeper's host doesn't have to be its Ambassador, but there's
nothing that says it couldn't."
James was thinking hard, trying to remember his dreams. He shook his
head. "It's not Merlin, though, in my dream. I've never seen the person's
face, but I'm sure it isn't him. It just feels all wrong. It's someone younger.
And different. Definitely not Merlin."
Rose gasped and covered her mouth with both hands, her eyes going
wide. Ralph jumped at her sudden movement. "What?" he exclaimed.
"The Bloodline!" Rose said in a very high voice. "They even
mentioned it in that scene in the Mirror, at Tom Riddle's grave, don't you

remember? The Gatekeeper went looking for the best host it could find, and
sensed Voldemort's body. It knows almost nothing about humans, so it
didn't realize Voldemort was dead until it got there. Then it made the statue
talk, somehow tapping into the ghost of Voldemort. The statue told the
Gatekeeper that there was another host for it, one with Voldemort's blood in
its veins. Remember? It's obvious! The Gatekeeper's host is to be the
Bloodline of Voldemort!"
"But who is it?" Ralph asked. "We don't know that, so we're right back
where we started."
"We don't know it yet," Rose said, smiling a little nervously. "But we
have a way of finding out." She looked at James.
James pressed his lips together and sighed. "My phantom scar. But we
don't even know where it's coming from or if we can trust it."
Rose shrugged. "It's all we have. All we can do is hope it's not a trick
of some kind. Pay attention to your dreams, James. They're probably our
only clue. Maybe you'll finally get a good look at whoever it is and we'll
learn who the Bloodline is."
"And who the mysterious speaking voice is too," Ralph added
meaningfully.
"Yes, that too," Rose agreed. "Good point, Ralph. Maybe it's Merlin
himself, don't you think?"
Ralph heaved a great sigh. "I don't know. I hope not. But the
alternative could be worse, couldn't it? I mean, a known enemy is better
than an unknown one, right?"
After lunch, James hurried across the castle to the amphitheater where
Muggle Studies would be meeting for the rest of the term. When he got to
the archway leading outside to the terraced seating, he was quite surprised
to feel warm air despite the snowflakes which fell like a curtain over the
distant hills.

Damien Damascus met James near the base of the stage. "Fortunately,"
he said, smiling, "Curry isn't such a slave to doing things like the Muggles
that she isn't willing to magic a little atmosphere for us to work in. Nice,
eh? Now I just have to get the hang of this thing." He held up a hammer and
studied it at arm's length. "It's a bit brutish, don't you think?"
The atmosphere around the stage was indeed strangely pleasant. James
took off his cloak and flung it over a seat in the front row. He looked up,
smiling in wonderment. The sky was thick with grey clouds and drifting,
skirling snowflakes, but the snow seemed to vanish as it fell into the air
over the amphitheater. The light near the stage even seemed brighter, as if
an errant sunbeam had simply bypassed the cloud cover and jumped
directly into the bowl of the amphitheater. James remembered his
Technomancy classes from last year, and knew that somewhere, strangely, a
small, dark pocket of snow was falling on a warm, sunny hillside.
"Ah, James," Curry cried, walking briskly across the stage. "My little
Treus, you're here after all. I trust you have your script. Do join us. We're
simply blocking out scenes for now, but it helps to have you read through
the lines for timing purposes."
As James read aloud through his lines and walked through act one with
the rest of the actors, he found he was truly enjoying himself despite his
earlier worries about Merlin and the Gatekeeper. It felt a little strange acting
out the parts amidst the clatter and shouts of Jason Smith's hardworking
stage crew. As James read through a scripted conversation with Noah
Metzker as Donovan, Damien and three other crew members were raising a
gigantic wooden mock-up of a castle wall, complete with a rampart, a
turret, and a balcony. Their shouts and grunts of effort nearly drowned out
James and Noah's words.
As they moved over the stage, Curry followed them with a roll of thick
yellow tape. Occasionally, she'd move James by the shoulders, positioning
him on the stage.
"Hit this mark when you read that line," she'd instruct him, bending

down to tape an 'X' on the stage floor. "We'll arrange a spotlight for this
position. Mr. Metzker, do go ahead, and make sure you don't turn your back
on the audience."
"But James is over there," Noah said, gesturing. "I'm supposed to be
talking to him, aren't I?"
"You are an actor, Mr. Metzker," Curry trilled. "You are speaking to
the audience first and foremost."
Noah frowned and looked out over the mostly empty seats. "But they
aren't the ones threatening to run off with Astra, are they?"
Curry sighed. "Just read the lines, Mr. Metzker. We'll work out who's
running off with whom later."
As they prepared to read through act two, James realized he'd been
feeling a dull throb in his forehead. He reminded himself not to rub it, but it
was definitely getting worse. He glanced out over the amphitheater seating,
squinting through the glare of the spotlights. There, sitting near the back,
almost lost in the shadows, was Merlin. James couldn't make out his face,
but he could easily see the large man's shape. Merlin seemed to realize
James was looking at him. He raised a hand and tapped his forehead slowly,
as if he were making a sign. James' eyes widened, and then, suddenly, his
forehead burned. It was as if a hot poker had been pressed to it. James
squeezed his eyes shut, turning away.
He bumped into someone, nearly knocking them over.
"James? What is it?" Curry called out. "You nearly knocked your
leading lady off the stage."
James looked up, the pain in his forehead receding again. Petra was
looking at him with a concerned expression. "Are you all right, James?"
"It's just the lights," James lied. "They're pretty hot. I'm fine now." He
tried to grin and shrug.

Curry turned and began calling for the rest of the performers for the
second act. Petra moved close to James and lowered her voice. "I know
what you mean about the lights," she said, smiling. "These Muggle electric
spotlights are like death rays, aren't they? Too bad we didn't have one to use
with the Wocket last year."
James grinned and flushed. "Yeah," he said, and then didn't know what
else to say. "Er, do you know all your lines yet?"
"Not at all," Petra admitted. "Frankly, I feel a little bad about getting
the role. Poor Josephina's been forced to work in the costume shop. She
can't sew at all either. They just have her ripping seams when the others
make mistakes. I hear the Vertigo Hex is still so strong that she can't even
climb stairs. She's moved into the hospital wing until they can figure out a
way to get her up to her dorm."
Petra's voice sounded concerned, but James saw that she was smiling a
little. James realized it was a little funny. Josephina had been rather
insufferable about getting the part of Astra, and James felt very strongly
that Petra would play the part better anyway. He decided to say so to Petra.
"It is a shame about Josephina, I suppose," he said, "but I'm really glad
you got the part. I'd much rather play Treus for you than for her."
"Places, everyone!" Curry called. "Mr. Potter, Miss Morganstern, this
way please."
Petra glanced away at the sound of Curry's voice. "Come, James," she
said, striding away, "our public awaits."
James felt himself blush. He watched Petra walk across the stage and
then ran to catch up.

"Are you sure you don't want to come to Dad's flat with me for the
holiday?" Ralph asked James and Rose as the three lurked around the halls
late Saturday morning. "I came to your Christmas last year, so it'd be a fair
trade. Dad's going to cook a goose and everything. Of course, there won't be
any singing elf heads or Winkles and Augers or anything,"
"That's all right, Ralph," James answered. "I rather prefer a Christmas
without singing elf heads, actually. But really, I think it'd be best for us to
stay here."
"It's all right not to have magic for Christmas. There's no shame in
your father being a Squib," Rose said, putting her hand on Ralph's shoulder,
which was rather a reach for her. "He's quite an important man in the
wizarding world these days. Head of Security and Precautionary
Interference for Hogwarts, Diagon Alley, even Gringotts Bank, isn't he?
Nobody else but him could do that since nobody else understands both
Muggle electronics and magic like he does."
"Yeah, I know," Ralph said, grinning sheepishly. "And he's really good
at it. He's helping the Ministry develop a new kind of Disillusionment
Charm that only works on Muggle global positioning devices. I mean, the
greatest flaw in the regular Disillusionment Charm is that a GPS device
doesn't have a brain to fool. He's calling the new spell an 'Artificial
Stupidity Hex'. He used to work on artificial intelligence software, so he
says this is the next logical step. Once the hex is in place, it makes any
Muggle positioning device see detours, roadblocks, heavy traffic, even
cyclones and floods around any magical place. That way, both the Muggles
and their technology will find those magical places invisible."

"That's brilliant," Rose said. "I mean, older generations of wizards
never could have predicted the development of things like satellites and
GPS devices and GameDecks with online chat capability. The wizarding
world really needs a man like your dad to develop magical protections
against things like that. He really was a godsend."
"Still," Ralph said, his face falling a little, "Dad has taken his old name
again. Dolohov. He says he isn't going to let the selfishness of his father rob
him of his magical heritage, but I know a little bit about that heritage, and it
isn't all that great."
"You father's right," Rose said firmly. "You aren't responsible for
anything your distant relatives did. I think it's very cool that your dad is
changing the way people see the name Dolohov."
Ralph shrugged. "He's not changing it for everyone. Lots of people still
hate the Dolohov name. Some of them are right here in school. Everybody
knows what happened here. I mean, my uncle killed Ted Lupin's dad right
downstairs. The Dolohov name is the name of murderers and traitors."
"It was awful that some of your family were so bad in the past," Rose
replied, "but that was a long time ago. People shouldn't blame you for that."
Ralph sighed. "I suppose not, but they do. And honestly, I can't blame
them. It's why I still go by the name Deedle. I hate my own grandparents
even though they're long dead. Dad remembers them, and he wants to
believe they weren't as bad as they seem. He's sort of trapped between
loving them and hating them. But what kind of parents abandon their kid
because he's different? What kind of people make that kid swear to never
seek them out, or even talk about them?"
Rose didn't have an answer to that. The three wandered the halls
aimlessly, passing tall windows, moving in and out of pools of cold winter
sunlight. After a few minutes, James told Ralph and Rose about his
conversation with Albus after the last Quidditch match.

"He says he didn't take the Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder's
Map?" Rose said. "Do you believe him?"
James shrugged. "I don't know. He sure seemed honest about it. But he
was really moody. Apparently he's pretty tight with Tabitha and her Fang
and Talons cronies, and they've been telling him that I'm jealous of him, that
I'm going to try to mess things up for him somehow."
"And are you?" Ralph asked.
"What?" James replied. "Oh yeah. I keep forgetting you're a Slytherin
too. No, Ralph. I'm not jealous of Al, and I'm not going to try to sabotage
him. I just don't want him to fall for any of Tabitha's lies. She's already got
him convinced that she needs him because she's going through some
mysterious personal tragedy."
Rose arched her eyebrows. "Really? What tragedy?"
"I don't know. She was all upset after the match, and not just because they
lost."
"She has been pretty ugly around the common room lately," Ralph
said. "She's not been her normal polite, ice queen self at all. She's snapping
at people a lot, and stalking around, or sitting all by herself in the corner,
mooning over parchments and books. I've even seen her send Philia and
Tom Squallus away. But she doesn't send Albus away. It looks a little odd,
really. I mean, she's a seventh-year and a foot taller than him. Not a likely
pair, if you ask me."
"Curious," Rose said, narrowing her eyes. "I wonder what's going on
with her."
"But what about the Cloak and the map?" Ralph asked. "If Albus really
doesn't have them, and you don't have them, James, then who does?"
James slumped. "I don't know. Honestly, I don't care. Maybe Dad

misplaced them somehow. Maybe Kreacher hid them away in his cupboard.
He used to do that all the time at Grimmauld Place with all old Mrs. Black's
stuff."
"You should tell your mum to check there," Rose said.
"It's not my problem, Rose," James snapped.
"It's your problem if she keeps thinking you stole them," Rose replied
smoothly. "But whatever suits you. Maybe you prefer letting everyone think
you're a thief."
The three stood by a window overlooking the courtyard. At the bottom
of the main steps, Hagrid was loading trunks and bags onto a carriage,
preparing to transport a group of students to the Hogwarts Express for their
trip home. James sighed.
"I'd better go pack," Ralph said. "Dad's picking me up at the station
tonight. We're spending the night in Hogsmeade so he can meet with some
storeowners there, and then we're going back to London tomorrow."
"Sounds fun, Ralphinator," James said, trying to buck up a bit. "Have a
good holiday. Stay out of the Shrieking Shack."
"Count on it," Ralph agreed. "I avoid anything with the word
'shrieking' in it."

13. CHRISTMAS AT HOGWARTS
By the next day, the school had emptied almost entirely. The corridors
seemed eerily dark and silent with most of the classrooms shut and locked.
As James made his way to breakfast on Sunday morning, he saw Cedric
Diggory's ghost at the end of a long hall. He seemed to be in conversation
with the Grey Lady. Both were floating slowly down the hall away from
him. James decided not to interrupt them. Was it possible that Cedric
fancied the Grey Lady? She was pretty enough, in a ghostly way, and she
didn't appear to be much older than Cedric in human terms. In another sense
though, she was several centuries older than Cedric, but maybe that didn't
matter in the ghostly realm. Either way, it was far too bizarre for James to
think about. He continued on his way to breakfast, shaking his head.

In the Great Hall, Rose was sitting at the Slytherin table with Albus.
As James joined them, he heard them talking about the sale of the Burrow.
It was a thoroughly depressing conversation, and James stayed out of it.
Later, he suggested that the three of them go out and build snowmen in the
courtyard. This was heartily agreed to, and the three spent the noon hours
happily laughing and romping in the new snow. They succeeded in building
a rather ridiculously large snowman, using their wands to levitate the
enormous snowballs into position since they were far too heavy to lift.
James and Rose attempted to levitate Albus himself up to the snowman's
head to attach the carrot nose, but they were unable to keep him upright.
Albus rolled over in the air until he was floating upside down. His hat fell
off and plopped into the snow twelve feet below.
"Don't drop me!" he yelled, flapping his arms like an awkward bird.
On the ground, wands in hand, Rose and James laughed so hard that tears
squeezed from their eyes and rolled down their red cheeks.
"The carrot, Al!" Rose cried breathlessly. "Stick it in! What's the
matter? Can't you fly?"
"Give me a broom and I'll fly," Albus griped, kicking his legs to turn
himself upright again. "Next time, you get carrot duty, Rosie."
The three finally blundered inside as the sun lowered toward the
horizon in a blaze of orange and pink. They left their snowy cloaks, hats,
and gloves in a dripping trail as they made their way to the Great Hall for
cocoas and afternoon snacks. James was glad of the break and the time to
spend as a family. He purposely avoided talking about Merlin or the
missing Invisibility Cloak and Marauder's Map.
"We should do this again next year," Rose said, smiling over her
cocoa, her cheeks red. "It's sort of fun having the place to ourselves. Next
year, we can get Hugo and Lucy and everybody else to stay with us."
"What about Louis?" Albus asked, smiling crookedly.

"He can stay too, I suppose, just so long as he doesn't talk," Rose said
magnanimously.
"He probably wouldn't want to stay," James commented. "He went
home this year with Victoire, you know. Of course, she wants to see Ted.
Louis is just along for the ride."
"Are they spending all their time out at the Burrow packing?" Rose
asked.
Albus shrugged morosely. "Packing's all done. Grandma Weasley
managed that all by herself. I mean, how hard is packing for a witch like
her? The big job is dividing everything up. Grandma and Granddad had an
awful lot of stuff. And then there's the ghoul to take care of."
"Who's getting that?" Rose asked, frowning a little distastefully. "It
better not end up in my mum and dad's attic."
"I bet it does," James replied, stirring his cocoa. "In fact, I bet your
parents just move it into your room while you're at school. After all, it still
looks quite a bit like Uncle Ron when he was our age. They may even like
it better than you."
Rose rolled her eyes. "You'll have to try harder than that to get a rise
out of me, James Potter."
"I bet it's in your room even now," Albus said thoughtfully, "wearing
your make-up and trying on your knickers."
Rose nearly knocked her cocoa over lunging for Albus. James and
Albus hooted laughter, earning an annoyed look from a house-elf cleaning a
nearby window.

Time crept by surprisingly slowly as Christmas approached. James,
Rose, and Albus spent the time playing Winkles and Augers in each other's
common rooms, exploring the snow-covered grounds, and visiting Hagrid
in his hut. Meals were taken in the company of the few remaining students
and teachers, among whom were Fiera Hutchins, Hugo Paulson, and, to
James' surprise, Josephina Bartlett, whose vertigo was only slightly better.
She could manage sitting on a bench at the Ravenclaw table, although if she
happened to drop a bread crust or a fork, she was completely unable to bend
over to retrieve it. James felt a little sorry for her, but then he saw her
yelling tersely at one of the house-elves to retrieve a new fork for her and
determined that her arrogance and general insufferability had not been
greatly affected by her predicament.
On Christmas morning, James was rather shocked to be awakened by
the smell of fresh kippers and a deep, bullfrog voice.
"A merry Christmas to you, Master James," the voice said. "Lays there
like a stone, he does, like his breakfast will stay hot by pure and simple
magic until he decides he's ready to eat it, which it will, of course, but only
because Kreacher works so hard day and night to hone the best Warming
Charms for it…"
"Kreacher?" James asked blearily, rubbing his eyes and sitting up. A
tray of immaculately prepared breakfast had been laid over his legs. A black
rose and a candy cane protruded from a tiny alabaster vase in the corner of
the tray. "What are you doing here?"
"Sent by your dear mum, Master James," Kreacher said, bowing low.
He was standing at the end of James' bed, dressed only in his tea towel

despite the cold of the room. "Already served Christmas breakfasts to
Master Albus and Mistress Rose. Your presents await you below."
"James!" Albus called from the common room stairs. "Come on!
Kreacher won't let us unwrap anything until we're all together! Orders from
Mum, of course. So chow down already!"
James bolted a few bites of the kippers and drank his pumpkin juice,
thanked Kreacher, then flung himself out of bed. Rose and Albus were
seated by the fire below, drinking tea and wearing green hats with jingle
bells on the tips. Rose grinned and shook her head, ringing the tassels.
"Festive, eh? They came from my mum. She knew we'd not have
decorated or anything. Put yours on!"
She tossed one of the hats to James. He smiled and jammed it onto his
head. Kreacher came slowly down the stairs. He had also donned one of the
hats, although he wore it like it weighed a hundred pounds. The hat covered
his eyes. He pushed it up with a thumb, peering at James, Rose, and Albus
with one eye. "All present and accounted for," he said to himself. "Merry
Christmas, Masters and Mistress."
He snapped his fingers. There was a change in the light of the room
and James sensed that a sort of protective field had been removed from the
stack of presents. Albus whooped and leapt off the couch, attacking the
biggest one with his name on it. James grinned happily and joined in.
Kreacher remained with the three until all the presents were
unwrapped, then, dutifully, he collected all the cast-off wrapping paper and
ribbons. He rolled the debris up, compressing it into a remarkably dense,
colorful ball, and then, strangely, stuffed it inside his green tasseled hat. He
put the hat back on his head while Rose struggled not to giggle at the
silliness of it.
"Kreacher has been asked to inform you that your parents will speak to
you tonight via Floo Network," the elf warbled. "Kreacher takes his leave of
you now, Masters and Mistress. Do have a pleasant holiday."

"You too, Kreacher," Rose said around a mouthful of gingerbread
witch.
"Indeed," Kreacher replied. He raised a spindly arm and snapped his
fingers. The elf vanished in a puff of greenish smoke.
"Always liked that elf," Albus proclaimed. "Knows how to keep it
businesslike, he does. No beating about the bush."
Rose said, "I feel a little sorry for him. What does he get for
Christmas?"
"Oh Rose, you're as bad as your mum," James replied. "Two
Christmases ago, Mum and Dad tried to give Kreacher a Christmas present.
It was just a little basket with a pillow in it for him to sleep on. They bought
it at a Muggle pet store, because the little brute refuses to sleep in a regular
bed. He didn't want to accept it though, and when they insisted he keep it,
he wouldn't even use it like he was supposed to. He's been using it ever
since as a basket for carrying around the laundry!"
"Honestly, Rose," Albus agreed, "Kreacher isn't made to be happy. We
try. We really do. Especially Dad. Kreacher and him have a sort of history."
"I know," Rose said. "He just seems so miserable."
"Hah!" James exclaimed. "This is ecstatic by Kreacher's standards. I've
heard about what he was like when Dad first inherited him. Kreacher sent
him a box of maggots for a Christmas present."
"He didn't!" Rose gasped, covering her mouth.
Albus pulled a homemade green and silver scarf out of one of his
unwrapped boxes. He threw it around his neck. "Trust us, Rosie. This is
Kreacher happy. Otherwise, we'd have gotten leeches for breakfast instead
of kippers."

That afternoon, Albus took James and Rose down to the cellars and
showed them the Slytherin's spell-casting range. Just as Albus had
described, the room was long and low with clockwork dummies installed
against the far wall. Albus illustrated how the range worked by whipping
out his wand and shooting a Stinging Hex at one of the dummies. It lifted
its wooden arms and shook them in a parody of pain, as if it were being
peppered with bee stings. Albus repeated the spell, laughing. James laughed
as well, but a little nervously. Rose didn't laugh at all. She looked
distastefully at Albus and crossed her arms.
Christmas dinner in the Great Hall was as resplendent as any dinner
James had ever attended despite the fact that the room was only a fifth full.
Professors Knossus Shert and Lucia Heretofore, the new Potions teacher
and Head of Slytherin House, were seated at the table on the dais. Hagrid
sat between them, talking loudly and looking like what he was: a half-giant
between two rather slight people. Heretofore looked obviously disgusted by
Hagrid, although she masked it behind a thin smile. To James' surprise,
Petra Morganstern was seated in the middle of the Gryffindor table, smiling
slightly as Hagrid attempted to lead his fellow professors in a round of
Christmas carols.
"I didn't know you were here for Christmas," James said, sitting down
at the table across from Petra.
"Yeah," Rose agreed, "where've you been?"
"I went down to Hogsmeade for a few days," Petra answered. "Did a
little shopping. No point in moping around here all holiday."
"Why didn't you go home for Christmas?" Rose asked.
Petra shrugged, still smiling up at the dais. "No point, really. I already got
my present, didn't I?"
James raised his eyebrows. "You mean that box that came by Ministry
owl last month? We were all wondering about that. It came from your dad?"

Petra nodded and sipped her Butterbeer. "Madam Rosmerta had this
shipped from the Three Broomsticks for tonight. Did you know that? I
talked to her yesterday."
"So what did you get for Christmas?" Albus asked. "I got a new scarf,
a box of sweets, and a Remembrall. Honestly, Mum should've given the
Remembrall to James so he could keep track of Quidditch try-outs." He
grinned at James.
Petra looked at Albus, still smiling. "It was just some stuff. It wouldn't
mean much to anyone but me."
"So that's why you ran off to open it by yourself," Albus commented.
Rose kicked him under the table.
Petra shrugged. "It's nice to have some time by ourselves, isn't it? I'm
taking the time to learn my lines. Would you like to rehearse a little, James?
Professor Curry would probably put us in her will if we came back from
break knowing all of our lines."
"Sure!" James said, a little too enthusiastically. He modulated his tone
and added, "I mean, whatever. If you want to. I don't have much else
planned."
"You don't have anything else planned," Albus smirked. "What, you
have an interview with the Minister of Magic we don't know about? Ow!
And Rose, you can stop kicking me under the table already!"
Petra grinned at Albus, then James. "I'll see you later in the common
room. Bring your script and we'll read through it, all right?"
James nodded, not trusting himself to speak. Petra left, walking slowly,
thoughtfully.
"James is in love with his leading lady," Albus mocked, making
kissing noises.

"I'm not in love with her, you prat," James scowled, pretending it was
the most ridiculous thing he'd ever heard.
"Oh James, you're not fooling anyone," Rose said, shaking her head.
"It's obvious. It's kind of cute, actually."
"Shut up!" James said, blushing furiously. "Just because I have to
pretend to be in love with her for the play doesn't mean it's happened for
real! Maybe I'm just a very good actor!"
Rose tried to mask a grin. "Well, then, you really are getting into your
role, aren't you? I had no idea you were so dedicated to the craft. It's a good
thing you aren't scripted to murder anyone."
James rolled his eyes dramatically. "You're both completely daft. Think
whatever you want."
Albus studied James for a moment, and then made more kissing noises
at him. "Oh Petra, I'm just a boy, but you make me feel like such a man!"
James grabbed a roll and hurled it at Albus, who collapsed into
delighted laughter.

When James returned to the common room a little while later, leaving
Rose and Albus singing Christmas carols with Hagrid in the Great Hall, he
was pleased and a bit flustered to find Petra sitting in a chair near the fire,
script in hand. He ran up the steps to his dormitory, retrieved his own copy
of the script from his satchel, and tramped back downstairs again, telling

himself the entire time not to be a fool, that Rose and Albus certainly
couldn't be right about his falling in love with Petra, and most of all, that
even if it was true, it was preposterous to think she could ever return those
feelings. She was nearly five years older than James, smart as could be, and
totally stunning. Girls like Petra simply did not fancy gawky younger boys
who still hadn't managed the knack of an Anti-Pimple Charm. James' face
was flushed by the time he rejoined Petra, plopping onto a nearby couch.
"Alas, my dear Treus," Petra quoted, turning a page in her script, "thou
doth set mine heart aflutter. Shall we start from the top?"
James began to answer, but his voice came out as a squeak. He cleared
his throat. "Yeah. Sure. I'll read whoever you're talking to, and you can do
the same for me."
"I can do a pretty good Donovan," Petra agreed. "I even considered
trying out for the part."
"And I suppose Noah could've played Astra?" James grinned.
Petra nodded. "A century ago, men often played the roles of women in
these kinds of plays. Some places didn't even allow women to act at all.
Turnabout is fair play, I'd say. Besides, sometimes I think it'd be fun to act
the part of the evil rogue with the awesome powers. Women are always the
pawns in these stories."
James thought she was possibly the prettiest pawn he'd ever seen, but
he determined not to say it. He cleared his throat again and began to read
aloud. Two hours later, once they'd finished the read-through, James noticed
that Albus and Rose had entered the common room. They were seated at a
rear table with Hugo Paulson, who was teaching Albus some Winkles and
Augers techniques. James caught Rose looking at him furtively, a small
smile on her lips.
"Hey, James," Albus called, pocketing his wand. "Remember, we're
supposed to be talking to Mum and Dad via Floo Network tonight. Or
should I tell them you have more pressing matters to attend to?"

James glared at Albus, who simply grinned back at him.
"It's fine, James," Petra sighed, closing her script. "I've had enough of
this for tonight anyway. I'm going to head upstairs and write some
Christmas letters. Thanks for the help."
"It was fun," James agreed. "See you around, Petra."
As James watched Petra cross the room to the girls' dormitory stairs,
Rose joined him on the couch.
"You really should be careful, James," she said in a quiet voice.
James barely heard her. "What do you mean?"
"I mean, Petra's not in a position to respond the way you'd like her to."
"I don't know what you're talking about," James insisted, finally
turning around and closing his script. "We were just rehearsing."
"It isn't just the age difference, you know. That's not that big of a deal
in the long run. You need to realize that Petra's heart is obviously
elsewhere."
James furrowed his brow and looked at Rose. "What's that mean?"
"Well, it's obvious, James," Rose said, lowering her voice even further.
"Petra didn't go down to Hogsmeade to do any shopping, no matter what
she said. She was hoping to catch Ted before he left for the Burrow."
"Why would she do that?" James asked, blinking.
Rose rolled her eyes and shook her head. "She's still in love with him,
you prat. She's broken-hearted that he left her for Victoire."
"But Noah said that she never really loved him," James said, frowning.

"He said she knew all along that he wasn't a good match for her."
"She may say that, but the heart does what it wants, doesn't it? She
loves Ted. It's obvious. I just don't want you to do or say anything that
could ruin your friendship with her. I don't want to see you get hurt."
James slumped back against the couch. "What do you think I am,
Rose? A complete idiot? Even if what you say is true, I'd never say
anything about it to Petra."
"Sorry, James. Unrequited love is as poison to the soul, isn't it?"
"Ha, ha," James replied crossly. "That's Treus' line in act two. You're
very funny."
"Look," Albus yelled, jumping up from the table in the corner. "The
grate! Hi, Dad! Happy Christmas!"
"Happy Christmas to you, son," Harry Potter's face grinned from the
coals of the fireplace.
"Hi, Uncle Harry," Rose chimed, climbing off the couch to kneel in
front of the grate. "How's everything going at the Burrow?"
Harry seemed to shrug. "As well as can be expected, I suppose. It's not
the way any of us would prefer to spend the holiday, but today was all right.
Lily is staying with Andromeda Tonks, and everyone here sends their love.
Kreacher says you all looked well enough. Did you like your presents?"
"I love the scarf," Albus replied. "And the Remembrall. And the
sweets were great too."
"Don't tell me you ate them all already, son,"
"I did, but don't tell Mum. I'm a growing boy, Dad. Got to keep bulked
up for Quidditch!"

Albus and Harry spent a few minutes discussing the Quidditch season,
and Harry congratulated Albus on making Slytherin Seeker even though he
admitted he was glad Gryffindor had so far edged them out of the
tournament.
"There's a whole line of people who want to say hi," Harry said. "Quit
pushing, Hermione!"
Harry's face sank out of the coals and was replaced a moment later by
Hermione's distinctive features and thick hair. "Happy Christmas, Rosie,"
she cried, "and you too, James and Albus. Are you all doing well?"
"Well enough," James said. "It's been a mad year so far. It's a lot to
explain."
Rose grinned at her mother. "James is right. We have an awful lot to
tell you about. Our first week here, Merlin took us for a hundred-kilometer
walk through the woods to go and get this magical box of all his stuff, and
—"
"Just a moment, Rosie," Hermione said. "Ron, I'll ask in a minute. And
do you really want to eat that biscuit? How many have you had?"
Hermione's face vanished from the grate. A second later, Ron's grin
surfaced. "Hey, Rosie! Are these two taking good care of you? 'Cause if
they aren't…"
"Hi, Uncle Ron," Albus said happily. Ron had always been Albus'
favorite. "I'm a Slytherin!"
"Hi, Dad," Rose grinned. "How's Hugo?"
"Everyone is fine here, considering everything," Ron said, his grin
fading. "Ted and Charlie got in a fight over something Victoire said,
although nobody seems all that sure what it was. George drank a little too
much Firewhisky, tripped over the ghoul, and broke his left pinky finger on

some trunks. And your Grandmother is either yelling at everybody or
breaking down in tears. It's a glorious Christmas all round. Come to think of
it, do you blokes have a spare bed there? I think I'd even be willing to bunk
out with you in the Slytherin quarters, Al."
"Yeah!" Albus agreed instantly. "Come on over by Floo! You can have
Ralph's bed!"
From behind Ron, Aunt Fleur's voice said, "You are not going
anywhere, Ron Weasley."
"It was a joke, Fleur. Bloody hell."
Ron's face sank out of the coals. There seemed to be some commotion,
then Ginny appeared.
"Hi, boys! Hi, Rose! Happy Christmas!" she said, smiling.
"What's going on over there, Mum?" Albus asked. "Sounds like quite a
ruckus."
Ginny sighed. "You three are lucky you aren't here. It's just not a very
nice way to spend Christmas. Fortunately, most everything is packed and
moved out. We saved the beds for last so we can spend the night, but
tomorrow morning, we'll take them away too. How are the three of you
doing?"
James, Rose, and Albus told Ginny they were doing fine. Rose asked,
"So what's it like? I can't bear to think of the Burrow all empty. What's
Grandmother going to do?"
"It's fine, actually," Ginny said, but not very convincingly. "I mean,
yes, it's sad. Most of us have been coming here all our lives. But it's for the
best, really. Everybody knows that. Grandma Weasley will be staying with
us for the time being. We have plenty of room, especially now that you two
are out of the house," she indicated James and Albus with her eyes. "But
still. Your father packed up Granddad Weasley's garage all by himself. I

couldn't bear to look at it all. He was very strong about it though. I'm… I'm
very proud of him."
Ginny stopped abruptly. She sniffed and looked down for a moment.
Then, with a different expression, she looked up again. "How's Slytherin
treating you, Albus? Do they feed you well?"
Albus laughed. "Mum, we all eat together in the Great Hall. You know
that. It isn't like Slytherins have a secret dining room or anything."
"Well, I was never in the Slytherin quarters, you know. I didn't know
they had a spell-casting range either. But they're taking good care of you?"
"Sure, Mum," Albus said, smiling. "I like it there."
"And what about you, James?" Ginny asked, turning to her oldest son.
"I'm fine," James answered blandly, not quite looking at his mum. "I
got your Howler. Sort of."
"I'm sorry, James," Ginny said. "I was very angry when I sent that.
There was more to it than just the missing Cloak and map. I know that now.
This is a very stressful time for us all here. It just wasn't a good time to pull
something like that again."
"I didn't take them, Mum!" James said suddenly, desperately wanting
his mum to believe him. "I thought Albus must have done it, but he says he
didn't take them either!"
Ginny studied James' face for a long moment. "Well, if neither of you
took them, where have they gone?" she asked reasonably.
"How should I know?" James answered, a little mollified. "Maybe
Kreacher hid them away in his cupboard. You know how he used to do that
with old Mrs. Black's things when he thought they needed protecting. Have
you checked his cupboard?"

Ginny exhaled wearily. "No. Honestly, it didn't occur to me. I hope you
are right, James. Are you absolutely sure you're telling me the truth, son?"
"Yes, Mum! I promise! I didn't touch them this time."
"And you, Albus? You don't know anything about it?"
Albus shrugged. "First I heard about it was when James' Howler went
off at breakfast. Then James nearly tackled me after the last Quidditch
match, accusing me of setting him up. That's all I know about it, Mum."
Ginny shook her head dismissively. "Then I'm sure they'll turn up. I'll
ask Kreacher about it. Maybe he took your doll too, James. He may have
them all together down there in his little collection."
"My doll?" James asked.
"Yes," Ginny answered, distracted by something going on elsewhere in
the Burrow. "The little James doll you gave me last year at the end of
school. It went missing at the same time as the Cloak and map, but I just
assumed I'd misplaced it. I wasn't as worried about that. I mean, why would
you sneak your doll back to school with you?"
Rose had turned to look at James, her eyebrows raised in alarm.
"Oh, and James," Ginny said, interrupting herself, "did you talk to
Zane?"
James blinked, his thoughts racing. "What? Zane? No, not lately."
"He showed up in the Burrow earlier today. Well, I say 'showed up'. He
sort of, er, materialized. We had to shoot him with Stunning Spells to keep
him visible. Those Americans have some really curious methods of
communication, don't they? Anyway, he thought you'd be here along with
Rose. He said he really needed to talk to you. He asked me to tell you to
keep an eye out for him."

James nodded. "Sure, Mum. OK."
"Well, I really should go," Ginny said. "Grandma says happy
Christmas, and she'd love to chat, but we already packed the floor rug and
kneeling on the hearthstones is too hard on her knees. Take care of each
other. Rose, make sure those two eat something green every now and then.
And be sure to keep up with your studies, you two!"
"Yes, Mum," Albus and James said in unison.
Ginny smiled mistily. "I love you, all three of you. Goodnight and
happy Christmas!"
Ron and Hermione each made one more appearance in the fireplace,
saying their goodbyes. Finally, Harry appeared once more. He smiled
wearily. "Take care, you three. You're not getting into any trouble, are you?"
"No more than you would've," Albus smirked.
"Dad," James said, "I didn't take the Cloak and map this time."
"I know, James. Your mother already told me. I believe you."
"But who has them, then?"
"You leave that to me," Harry smiled. "I'm Head Auror, remember?
What kind of Auror would I be if I let something like the Invisibility Cloak
slip out of my hands? If you don't have them, then they're probably lost
under the bed back at home, or in the bottom of the clothes hamper. They'll
turn up."
"But Dad," James said, lowering his voice, "what about the voodoo
doll I got from Professor Jackson last year? That's me! Mum says it's gone
missing too!"
Harry seemed to understand James' concern. "Those things don't work

like they show in the Muggle films, son. You'll be all right. Your mum liked
it a lot though. She squeezed it every night."
"I know," James said, smiling slightly. "I felt her squeezes, a little."
Harry's smile widened. "Don't worry about it, James. It'll turn up.
Things always do, no matter how lost they seem. It's a rule of life."
James nodded. "Thanks, Dad."
"Good night, all of you," Harry said. "Happy Christmas. Now go get
some rest."
"You too," Rose answered. "Give everyone our love. Squeeze Lily for
us when you see her next."
Harry nodded. "I will, Rose." He glanced at James and Albus, smiling
proudly, and then he was gone. The coals reverted to a senseless strew.
"Sounds as if we made the right choice staying here," Albus
commented, climbing to his feet. "I wonder what will happen to all of
Granddad's things. What about his flying Ford?"
James sighed. "What's it matter? Granddad's the one that gave all those
things any meaning. Without him, they're all just… stuff."
Albus glared at James but didn't seem to know what to say.
Rose stood up and brushed off her knees. "I'm sure your dad won't just
throw it all away," she soothed. "Granddad spent years collecting those
things. It's all part of our memory of him. Uncle Harry will find a place for
it all."
"Nobody found a place for the Burrow," Albus said quietly. "Now it's
empty, and pretty soon, it'll be torn down." There was no response to that. A
moment later, Albus went on, "I'm heading back downstairs. I'll see you
both tomorrow."

"Goodnight, Albus," Rose replied, nodding. As Albus disappeared
through the portrait hole, Rose turned to James, her eyes sharp.
"Your voodoo doll's gone missing too! This could be serious!"
"You heard Dad. He says it's all right. He says they don't work like
they do in the Muggle flicks. It's not like anyone who finds it can use it to
pull my arms off or make me do things I don't want to do."
"Voodoo is a really secret art," Rose said, shaking her head. "And
Madame Delacroix is one of the best voodoo witches there is. You don't
know what that doll is capable of, and neither does your dad. Not really.
You have to be really careful with things like that."
"What do you think I'm going to do, Rose? I can't just magically find
the bloody thing. It probably did just fall down behind the headboard in
Mum and Dad's room."
"I wouldn't be willing to take that chance if I was you," Rose said
gravely. "Not until you know for sure what that doll is capable of."
"You make it sound like it's alive," James said, grinning a little
nervously. Rose merely stuck her hands on her hips and cocked her head as
if to say how do you know it's not?.
"I'll look into it," a voice said from behind Rose, causing her to jump a
foot into the air.
"Zane Walker!" she cried, spinning and clutching her hand to her heart.
"Stop doing that! You scared me half to death!"
"Sorry," Zane said, "it's hard to knock with Doppelganger hands. They
just go right through things."
"Hey, Zane, Happy Christmas," James smiled, turning on the couch to
face the half-transparent form. "You need a zap?"

"Yeah, if you don't mind. I'm managing this message all by myself. I
didn't want anyone else to hear it."
James produced his wand and shot the ghostly figure of Zane with a
Stinging Hex. The Doppelganger pulsed to something resembling a solid
shape.
"So? Aunt Ginny tells us you were looking for us at the Burrow," Rose
said crossly, plopping back onto the couch. "What's so important that you
needed to interrupt us on Christmas Day?"
"I was worried about you," Zane said seriously. "I wanted to warn you,
but then I found out that you'd stayed here at the school, and I knew
everything would be all right. For now, at least."
James frowned. "What are you talking about? Why wouldn't we be
safe? I mean, relatively speaking, considering the Gatekeeper is loose on
the earth and all that."
Zane's face was very pale and grave. "Remember when we talked in
the barn a couple of weeks ago? Rose, you told me all about how Merlin
had been tricked by that guy, Hadyn, a thousand years ago. He said Merlin
would get his fiancée back if he doubled Hadyn's lands and fortified his
castle, making it so that Merlin himself couldn't even attack anyone inside
it."
"Yeah," James said, shrugging. "So?"
"So, Merlin knows somebody broke into his office a few weeks ago.
He knows that person zapped themselves into his Magic Mirror and
probably found out some not-so-nice things about him. And Merlin
probably knows that that person was you, James. So haven't you wondered
why he hasn't said boo to you about any of it?"
"Well," James answered slowly, "like you said that day in the barn, if
Merlin was evil, he'd have come for us. The fact that he hasn't must mean

he isn't as bad as he could be. Maybe, somehow, he's on the good side after
all, and he knows we are too. Maybe he's letting us go because he knows
we're trying to help fight the Gatekeeper." Even as James said it, it sounded
false to him. In his heart, he didn't believe it, but he couldn't think of any
other reason that Merlin wouldn't have come for them.
Zane was shaking his head. "That's what I thought at the time. But then
I thought about the conversation that happened between Slytherin and
Merlin, back when he had you locked in his laboratory. You said that they
talked about the deal Hadyn had tricked Merlin into making, and they made
it pretty clear that Hogwarts is the castle Hadyn lived in when he made the
deal. Don't you see what that means?"
Rose's eyes widened. "It means Hogwarts is the castle Merlin fortified.
It can't be breached from outside," she said, nodding. "That would explain
how even Voldemort and his forces were kept out for so long back during
the battle. Merlin's protective spells were still in effect, although they were
probably weakened a bit after a thousand years."
"It would also explain how the secret entrances just keep opening up
again over time," James agreed, awed. "Like the one beneath the
Whomping Willow! It's like the castle heals itself when it's been damaged!
Merlin's magical fortifications are still at work after all these centuries!
Even the new parts seem to have gotten it. Even the parts that were built
after Merlin cast his spells over the castle! The new bits have inherited his
protection!"
Zane was still shaking his head somberly. "You're still missing the
most important part. We've been assuming that Merlin hadn't attacked you
three because he was on your side or he was letting you figure things out for
some reason. We'd assumed he was letting you go because he was
essentially good. But we forgot the most interesting part of the deal Hadyn
made with Merlin."
Rose suddenly gasped and covered her mouth. James' eyes widened,
remembering. It had been right in front of him the whole time. Slytherin
himself had said it, that night in his office a thousand years ago: you are

unable to touch the hair of anyone residing within this castle, Slytherin had
said, your threats are formidable, but fortunately, they are to no effect here.
"He can't hurt anyone inside the walls of the castle," James whispered.
"It was the last part of Hadyn's deal, because Hadyn knew that Merlin
would try to have his revenge on him. That's why Merlin had to wait until
Hadyn was on a journey in his coach. Only then could Merlin attack him."
James looked at Rose. Her hand was still over her mouth and her face
had entirely drained of color.
"May I be so bold as to suggest," Zane said, looking very meaningfully
at both of them, "that none of you go on any journeys for the time being?"

James' first concern had been Ralph, who was indeed travelling over
the holiday, staying with his dad at his flat in London. Zane assured them
that he'd already been to see Ralph, warning him to keep his wand handy
and try to never be alone.
"He wasn't very happy about it," Zane explained, "especially since his
wand is a chunk of Merlin's staff. He thinks he won't be able to use it on
Merlin if it comes down to it. He might be right too, but I didn't tell him
that."
"But it's his wand now," Rose insisted. "He won it. It's his to use
however he wishes."
Zane wasn't so certain. "This is old magic, Rose. It isn't like Ralph
battled Merlin and won his wand. The staff was broken up, and Ralph only
got a part of it. It still remembers when it was whole, and knows Merlin is

still master of the rest of it. You might be right, but we can't assume what is
true of a whole wand is true of a partial staff."
"Definitely don't tell Ralph that," James said. "He's nervous enough
already, and he'll never know the truth unless it comes down to a fight. It'd
be best if he truly believed his wand was his entirely. It might actually help
make it true."
Zane nodded. "In the meantime, I'll check with Madame Delacroix
about your voodoo doll. I'll try to get her to tell me what it can do. After all,
she's the one that made it."
Rose asked, "You can talk to her?"
"Sure. She's right here on the grounds, on the psychiatric floor of the
Poe Medical College. They keep her under lock and key, but she's allowed
visitors. She's pretty dotty after that whole experience in the Grotto Keep,
but I bet she remembers me. And a big chunk of log." Zane grinned a little
wickedly.
"I doubt it will come to that again," Rose said, rolling her eyes. "But it
might help loosen her tongue. After all, it was one of your presidents that
said to speak softly and carry a big stick."
"Yeah," Zane agreed, "big sticks are a specialty of mine."
After that, Zane wished James and Rose a goodnight and Merry
Christmas. He apparently had a Christmas party to go to himself, since it
was quite a lot earlier where he was. He broke into a rather rude Christmas
carol and vanished halfway through the chorus.
James and Rose said goodnight as well and went their separate ways,
climbing the stairs to their dormitories. It occurred to James that he had the
second-years' dormitory all to himself during the holiday, and it worried
him a little. He reminded himself that if what Zane said was true, Merlin
couldn't harm him inside the walls of Hogwarts. Still, the thought that
Merlin might actually desire to harm James, as well as Rose and Ralph, was

slightly terrifying. It was one thing to have a nebulous, generic enemy
floating loose on the earth, but it was another thing entirely to have a
specific enemy under the same roof as you, and to know that that enemy
was one of the most powerful sorcerers ever. Fortunately, after the day's
activities in the snow and the stresses of his conversations with Petra and
his parents, James was exhausted enough not to care. Besides, James had a
vague sense that Cedric was watching out for him. If Merlin came for
James, Cedric would find a way to warn him first. Thinking that, James fell
into a deep sleep.
He had the dream again, and it was clearer than ever. There was the
flash and swish of blades and the rattle of old machinery. There was the
flickering pool and the sad faces of the young man and woman. Worst of
all, there was the keening voice of the dark shape in the shadows, constantly
enticing, promising, instructing. A sense of deep sadness pervaded the
dream, but under the sadness, like sharp knives under a soft blanket, there
was anger. It was a cold, pulsing rage, broad as the sky and deep as the
ocean. And finally, for the first time, James saw his companion, reflected in
the rippling surface of the pool; a silhouette and a hint of a face. He still
didn't know where the pool was or where this secret, hidden place was
buried, but he finally had a sense of who this tormented person was. Long,
raven hair hung past piercing eyes. The eyes were like coals: hard and cold,
but concealing a fire that could burn anything and everything.
"You have cursed," the voice of the shadows said softly, evilly. "You
have tested the waters, yes. But you must perform the ultimate rite to
become truly worthy. You must make a sacrifice so great that there will be
no turning back. You must take from those who took from you. It will be a
hard and painful path, and only you can walk it, but it is the price of
balance. You must be willing to tread that path for all those who will come
after you. And for that sacrifice, they will honor your memory. They will
sing of you. Your story will become legend. And through that legend, you
will live forever, no matter what happens to your mortal form. Through
your trials, justice will be achieved. Those you've lost will be returned.
Their blood will be repaid in the only way that it can be: with more blood. It
is your duty and your honor."

"It is my honor," the raven-haired figure answered in a cold, calm
voice. A tear dripped from the figure's chin and struck the pool, where it
steamed.
James slept on. And in the morning, he barely remembered the dream.
But his phantom scar throbbed worryingly, and James wondered about it,
knowing it meant something, but unable to quite work out what. He made
his way down to breakfast, and by the time he entered the Great Hall, the
pain in his forehead had gone entirely. Albus and Rose were seated at the
Gryffindor table with Hugo and Petra, and all of them were engaged in
raucous conversation. James joined them, smiling happily.
By the time breakfast was over, he'd completely forgotten the dream.

14. ARTIS DECERTO
The Christmas holiday ended strangely for James. Since neither he, Rose
nor Albus had gone anywhere, there was no doleful return trip. Instead, it
felt as if school returned to them. On the Sunday when most of the students
arrived back from their travels, James and Rose sat in a sunny window seat
overlooking the courtyard. Silently, they watched bundled classmates
unloading their bags and trunks, lugging them up the steps to the main
entrance. The enormous snowman James, Rose, and Albus had erected was
becoming soft in a sudden thaw. Its carrot nose drooped sadly and one of its
stick arms had fallen off. Melting snow dripped steadily from the castle
roofs and balconies. James felt rather glad that the holidays were over and
looked forward to resuming classes and drama rehearsals.

Strangely enough, none of them had seen Merlin at all during the
entire holiday. James had passed Professor McGonagall in the hall outside
her office, and she had informed him that, as far as she knew, Merlin had
spent the holiday at the castle.
"It isn't as if the Headmaster has any family, you know," she'd
commented. "And one can only assume that his Christmas traditions would
be rather different than ours, at any rate. Besides, Headmaster Ambrosius is
a very private man, as you may have noticed. If he had any plans, I doubt
he'd have told any of us."
Classes began again and James noticed that the second half of the term
had a rather different tone than the first. Especially with the older students,
there was a noticeably more serious attitude about homework and studies.
All in all, it made James glad he was not yet old enough to participate in
O.W.L. or N.E.W.T. examinations.
As Defence Against the Dark Arts classes resumed, Professor
Debellows introduced techniques from a form of magical martial arts called
Artis Decerto. James' attitude about such things had been rather transformed
by his encounter with Salazar Slytherin on the top of the Sylvven Tower,
where he'd surprised himself by putting Debellows physical defensive
techniques to very good use. He paid close attention to the new moves,
which looked quite a lot like dancing, but were actually a method of
keeping one's body light and flexible, allowing for impressive displays of
spell dodging. As an example, Debellows invited the class to form a line
and make their wands ready. One by one, each student was to attempt to
Disarm, Stun, or Sting Debellows. "Your choice," the professor said,
grinning and hopping lightly from foot to foot.
"This is finally getting good," Trenton Bloch muttered, fingering his
wand.
As the first spells began to fire, Debellows dodged them with amazing,
almost effortless ease. He barely seemed to be watching the line of students.
He simply glanced once as each person in the line raised their wand, then

he'd turn, lunge, duck, or even pirouette, allowing the spell to flit past him
harmlessly, usually missing him by mere inches. James had to admit that it
was a rather amazing display, but he was determined that his spell would
strike its mark. He decided he would aim directly for Debellows' feet since
they, at least, were usually attached to the floor. When his turn came, James
raised his wand, aimed fleetingly for Debellows chest, and then, as quickly
as he could, pointed downwards and fired. Even as the spell shot from his
wand, Debellows was in the air, turning lightly. James' Stunning Spell
snuffed itself out on Debellows' shadow. A moment later, the big man came
down on his hands and the tips of his toes, as if he was doing a push-up.
With a heave and a grunt, he flung himself upright again, landing easily on
his feet. Deftly, he caught his own wand, which he had lobbed upwards
during his leap.
"Bluh-dee hell!" Graham Warton cried. Amazed applause rippled over
the students.
Kendra Corner raised her hand. "How long before we can do that?"
"Patience, students," Debellows called, chuckling and mopping his
brow with a towel. "Artis Decerto is a lifetime study. It is much more than a
physical art; it is a mental discipline. It incorporates the skills of levitation,
divination, and even Apparition, allowing the wizard to know when and
where his opponent is going to strike and not to be there when it happens.
Only the clumsiest wizard relies solely on the strength of his spells. The
ablest wizard knows that if he plays the game well, he need not use spells at
all."
James decided that, as unlikable as Debellows was, Artis Decerto was
a technique well worth learning. He devoted himself to the practice drills
and mental exercises Debellows prescribed even though they seemed
hopelessly difficult and abstract.
"Know your opponent better than he knows himself," Debellows
commanded. "It need not take years of study; most wizards know very little
of themselves. Gauge them in an instant. Take their measure. If you succeed
in this, you will always have the upper hand, for you will know what they

are going to do before they do themselves. You will already be preparing
your defence, and eventually, your counter-attack."
"When do we get to that part?" Trenton said, lowering his wand in
frustration. "I'm sick of trying to read the other bloke's mind. I want to
magic something."
"In time, Mr. er, young man," Debellows replied, waving a hand.
"First, you must understand the logistics of battle. No action should be
taken unless you have already foreseen the outcome. Planning and
deliberation are key! Magic is but one of the choices available to the
cunning wizard. At every stage of the battle, there are three options a
warrior may choose. The first choice is to curse his opponent."
Kevin Murdock pointed his wand at his drill partner and mimed a
Killing Curse. "Kapow! You're dead! That's what we've been waiting for,"
he said cheerfully.
"A wholesale and clumsy response, my friend," Debellows said.
"Perhaps you'd like to try that technique on me?"
Murdock's face reddened as he remembered the way Debellows had
dodged the myriad spells. He shook his head quickly, lowering his wand.
Debellows nodded once. "Good choice, boy. You have just illustrated
the second option a wizard may choose in battle: to wait and watch for his
opponent to make the next move. The cunning warrior will be able to
exploit his opponent's action and use it against him. If any of you ever see
battle, you will likely find yourselves facing an untrained and undisciplined
enemy: an enemy who believes that either bravery, power, or enthusiasm
will be enough to see him to victory. Get the measure of this enemy, wait
for him to make his move, and know it the moment he does. If you succeed
in those things, then the battle is already in your hands."
Trenton Bloch rolled his eyes, obviously unsatisfied. "What's the third
option, then?"

"The third option, my friends," Debellows said, raising his eyebrows,
"is to turn around and walk away."
"The third option is to retreat?" Morgan Patonia asked, frowning.
Debellows shook his head, smiling grimly. "Not at all. A true warrior
never retreats. But a true warrior does know when a battle is not worth
fighting. This might be because the enemy is too great, or because the
enemy is too weak. Either way, there is no valor in such a battle. The sign
of a true warrior, students, is knowing when not to fight."
"Inspiring stuff," Trenton muttered, unimpressed. James glanced at
him, then back at Debellows. He understood Trenton's annoyance, and yet,
after the duel against Salazar Slytherin in the distant past, James realized he
wasn't quite as quick to dismiss Debellows' methods as he had been before.
As spring began to descend on the school grounds, Neville
Longbottom started taking his Herbology classes on wandering field trips,
teaching them how to identify certain magical plants and trees in the wild.
The class slogged reluctantly behind as he led them along the perimeter of
the Forbidden Forest and into the marshy shores of the lake.
"Many magical plants have adapted to Muggle environments by
disguising themselves as something rather more innocuous," Neville called
happily, kneeling by the edge of the lake. "For instance, this breed of
spynuswort has acclimated to life in Muggle areas by disguising itself as
stinging nettles, thus assuring no Muggles will attempt to pull it up or
harvest it. You can tell the difference by the slight purple hue on the bottom
of the leaf. Once the plant is pulled up, however," Neville gripped the stem
and gently tugged it, drawing the root out of the wet earth, "you can see the
characteristic taproot of the spynuswort plant, useful for any number of
potions and elixirs."
"I'm not seeing the taproot," Ashley Doone said, examining the
uprooted plant in her own hands. "Just a big root ball."

Neville looked up. "Er, that's because that particular plant, Miss
Doone, is not so much spynuswort disguised as stinging nettles as it is
stinging nettles disguised as, er, itself."
"Yah!" Ashley cried, dropping the plant and brushing her hands
violently on her robes.
"To the hospital wing," Neville announced, sighing. "Madam Curio
has a salve for repelling the stings, but you'd best hurry or you'll be
smarting for hours."
Ralph and James watched Ashley bolt off toward the castle, her robes
flying.
Ralph said to James, "Are we all set for Defence Club tonight?"
"I guess," James answered. "I've barely seen Scorpius since the
holiday. Frankly, I think he's running out of things to teach us."
"You think so? I've learned loads of useful spells from him. That
grandfather of his really must have known his stuff."
"Yeah, well, that grandfather of his was one of the worst people my
dad ever knew," James replied. "Lucius Malfoy was a Death Eater. He's one
of the few who never recanted either, even though old Voldy's long since
dead. He's in hiding now, probably still waiting for the rise of the pureblood
empire. He knew plenty of dark magic, including all three Unforgivable
Curses."
Ralph shrugged. "Well, wherever Scorpius learned it from, I'm glad he
did. Considering what's going on with Merlin and this Gatekeeper thing, I'm
glad to learn as many curses and hexes as I can."
"I don't know," James said, lowering his voice. "I'm starting to wonder
if we're going about this all wrong."

"What do you mean?"
"I mean," James said, sighing, "what if Debellows is right about what
makes a great magical fighter? What if we're spending too much time just
learning curses and hexes and Disarming Spells? Maybe we should start
practicing some of those Artis Decerto techniques he's been showing us."
Ralph shook his head. "I can't do stuff like that, James. Look at me.
Zane was right. I'm a brick wall."
"You're no bigger than Debellows, and you saw what he did, dodging
all those spells, moving like he knew exactly where every bolt was going to
be. He made it look really easy!"
"Yeah, I know about things that look really easy. Turns out they aren't.
He said Artis Decerto was a lifetime study."
"So what else you got planned for the rest of your life?" James asked,
grinning. "You want to be great at something or what?"
Ralph smiled crookedly. "You think Scorpius can even teach us that
stuff?"
"Only one way to find out," James replied, arching an eyebrow.
But neither Ralph nor James saw Scorpius for the rest of the day. As
they walked to the gym for the Defence Club meeting, Rose was rather
enthusiastic about using the club to practice Artis Decerto techniques.
"You know he's hardly even teaching it to the girls," she fumed.
"Debellows is a first-class cretin when it comes to women in combat roles.
Some of the best fighters in history have been witches! Hasn't he ever heard
of Chloris the Clobberer? Or Ghia von Guggenheim? Or for that matter,
Bellatrix Lestrange and the woman who defeated her, Grandma Weasley?"
"He may not have heard of Grandma Weasley," Ralph answered

thoughtfully. "But you have a point."
"A woman is arguably more inclined to being good at Artis Decerto,"
Rose went on. "We're more graceful by nature. And more intuitive."
"Maybe you should teach it, then," James said with a straight face.
"Maybe I should," Rose replied, glaring at him.
The three turned into the gymnasium and stopped. Most of the club
members were cheering and shouting, gathered in a raucous throng near the
line of clockwork dummies. Green flashes lit the group, but James couldn't
see where they were coming from.
James and Rose ran forward, pushing into the throng. James, being
taller than Rose, saw what was happening first. The assembled students had
formed a semicircle around Tabitha Corsica, Philia Goyle, and Albus. The
three Slytherins were smiling happily as they fired green bolts at one of the
mechanical target dummies. The dummy thrashed and writhed, spitting tiny
cogs and springs, wracking loose of its frame.
"Stop it!" Rose yelled, her cheeks bright red. "What do you think
you're doing? Stop it this instant!"
Tabitha whispered an incantation, shooting one more spell at the
dummy, and then raised her wand easily. She turned to peer back over her
shoulder at the newcomers. "Good evening, Rose, James," she said. "Is
there a sign-up parchment we should attend to? We'd hate to bypass any of
the necessary formalities."
"What kind of spells were those?" Rose demanded, planting her fists
on her hips.
"Calm down, Rosie," Albus said, pocketing his wand. "We were just
having a little fun. It's just a dummy, you know."
"You were using Killing Curses," Rose said, wheeling on Albus. "How

dare you? You can't just come into this club and start using Unforgivable
Curses, especially that one! You'll get us all expelled!"
"The law is rather vague when it comes to practicing Unforgivable
Curses on inanimate objects, Rose," Tabitha said, smiling indulgently.
"Besides, what's the point of a Defence Club if you aren't going to practice
useful defensive techniques?"
"Killing someone is your idea of a defensive technique?" James spat.
Tabitha blinked at him, adopting a puzzled look. "Can you think of a
more effective one?" she asked.
"She's right," Nolan Beetlebrick, one of Tabitha's fellow Slytherins,
called from the crowd of students. "Debellows is a numpty. He's not
teaching us anything useful. I want to learn how to fight for real."
There was a chorus of agreement.
"We hardly wish to usurp control of your club," Tabitha said,
pocketing her wand. "We are here to learn, as are the rest of you."
"But if someone doesn't teach the lot of you how to do a basic
Cruciatus Curse," Philia interjected, "how do you expect to deal with those
who won't give a second thought to using a Killing Curse on you?"
The crowd of students babbled excitedly. "That's right," someone said.
"You have to be ready to fight fire with fire!"
"Are all of you Slytherins completely daft?" a voice declared. James
looked and saw Joseph Torrance push to the front of the group. "That's the
way your kind have always been, isn't it? Go straight for the dark magic.
You lot are just a bunch of one-trick ponies."
There was another babbled response from the crowd. A few people
moved away from Joseph, as if they believed Tabitha might curse him
where he stood.

"If the one trick is powerful enough," Tabitha said, smiling her most
charming smile, "it might just be all a pony needs."
"That's enough of this," James called as the crowd began to get
agitated. He raised his hands, turning toward the assembled club members.
"We started this club, Ralph and Rose and me, and it's supposed to just be
for first- through fourth-years," he said, glaring back at Tabitha and Philia.
"Debellows is teaching magical defence to the older years, like those two.
This club was meant to be a place where we could practice the basics of
defensive magic. It was never the plan to learn any Unforgivable Curses."
"Why not?" Beetlebrick interrupted, his face stony. "Why is everyone
trying to make sure we don't know how to defend ourselves?"
A chorus of agreements and arguments erupted from the crowd. James
called for order, but the noise of the babble was too loud. The group seemed
about to dissolve into complete chaos.
A loud crack echoed through the room, surprising everyone present.
James looked up, trying to see where the crack had come from. A
dissolving trail of smoke led down toward the main door where Scorpius
stood, his eyes narrowed and a small smile curling his lip.
"You want to practice Unforgivable Curses, do you?" he drawled. "In
case you've forgotten, I am the teacher for this club. You Slytherins are new,
so I'll let it slide, but you surely wouldn't want anyone to get the impression
that you were trying to take over."
Tabitha's charming smile turned decidedly sharklike as she looked at
Scorpius. "So it's true, first-year Scorpius Malfoy is going to teach us
everything he knows. Does that include how to be a traitor to one's family
values and traditions?"
Scorpius sighed and walked into the room. "Not until next term," he
answered breezily. "Although when it comes to underhanded tricks and

backstabbing, I'd hate to repeat anything you lot already know. Maybe you
can test out of that section."
Scorpius threaded to the center of the group, moving between Tabitha
and Albus, who stared at the pale boy with unmasked disdain.
"Excuse me," Scorpius said, bumping Albus with his shoulder. He
turned to face the group, pulling his wand from his cloak with a flourish.
"You wish to learn the most powerful curses, do you? You wish to know
how to defend yourselves, and even more, to take the fight to the enemy, is
that it? Well, contrary to what you may believe, I won't stop you. We will
learn such things. And I will be the one to teach them to you." Scorpius
narrowed his eyes again, staring hard at James, as if daring him to argue. "I
may only be a first-year, but my family tradition, as 'Tabby' has already
mentioned, is rich in the deadly arts. I'll teach you just as I was taught by
my father and grandfather."
"You little prat," Philia hissed. "We've been practicing defensive magic
for years! What can a greasy turncoat Gryffindor like you teach us?"
"The first thing I can teach you is to shut up when the teacher is
speaking," Scorpius said, turning to Philia, his face unflinching. "Outside
this room, you may be a fifth-year and I may be a 'greasy turncoat
Gryffindor', but in this room, you are the student and I am your instructor.
Or perhaps you're having second thoughts about joining this club?"
Philia's face had gone beet red with anger. "I'll teach you to speak to
me that way, you—"
"Do stop, Philia," Tabitha interrupted, amused. "Scorpius is right. This
is their club. We must abide by his rules. While we are in this room. Let us
see what he can teach us, since he has apparently been so well-educated."
Scorpius glared at Philia, daring her to defy Tabitha. After a moment,
Philia's face hardened. She pocketed her wand and folded her arms.
"Just as I thought," Scorpius said, turning to face the gathered club

members again. "First things first. You must learn to defend, parry, and Stun
before you can learn to make good use of anything more powerful. Skip the
basics and you will be target practice for any git with a wand. Fortunately,
we are well on our way with those skills, and I can only hope that our new
Slytherin friends can keep up with us. But later, once you have mastered
those techniques, you will be ready… to learn this."
Scorpius spun on his heel and flung out his arm, aiming his wand at
the broken clockwork dummy. "Avada Kedavra!" he roared, baring his
teeth. The bolt that shot from his wand was so bright and so green that it lit
the entire room. It struck the dummy in the chest, and its arms and legs
flailed full length, trembling violently. Then, with a clank and a rattle, the
dummy fell off its frame. It clumped to the floor in a heap.
Scorpius stared at it, his eyes slit and his teeth still bared.
Nolan Beetlebrick stepped out of the perimeter of the crowd and
kicked at the dummy with his foot. A cog tumbled out of it and rolled
across the floor. "Well," the boy said, nodding, "you definitely killed it."
There was a round of nervous, scattered applause. Rose looked over at
James, her eyes wide and worried. Her expression seemed to ask what have
we done?. James simply shook his head slowly.
"This could be better than I thought," Albus said, nudging James.
"Way to go, big brother."
As they left the gym a while later, James caught up to Ralph. "What
happened to you? Where were you back there?" he demanded.
Ralph glanced at James defensively. "What? I was there the whole
time!"
"You didn't say a word when Tabitha and Goyle showed up and started
killing the target dummies!"
"Well," Ralph replied, shrugging and walking quickly, "it looked to me

like you and Rose had it under control."
"Under control? You call completely losing our grip on the club 'under
control'? Scorpius is planning to teach Unforgivable Curses!"
Ralph didn't say anything as he walked. James stared at him angrily,
his eyes narrowed. "You want to learn them too, don't you?" he demanded.
Ralph pressed his lips together, refusing to reply. James turned in front
of him, stopping him in the hall, but Ralph spoke first.
"Don't, James," he said, dropping his eyes and shaking his head.
"Look, you're my best mate in the whole school, but we come from two
different worlds. You Gryffindors can be all sweet and courageous about
things like the Unforgivable Curses, but frankly, yeah, it does make sense to
me to learn them. I'm sorry."
James' mouth dropped open. "Ralph, there's a reason they're called
'unforgivable'. We can't even use them to fight the Gatekeeper if it comes to
that! That thing isn't even human! So there's no excuse for learning them."
"Isn't there?" Ralph said. James knew Ralph hated confrontations, but
the bigger boy forced himself to look James in the eye. "Are you telling me
you wouldn't have used an Unforgivable Curse to stop Voldemort from
killing your grandparents?"
James backed up a step, speechless. He started to reply, but Ralph went
on, cutting him off. "What about when my uncle was getting ready to
murder Ted Lupin's dad? Would you have used an Unforgivable Curse to
stop him from doing that? Or even my own grandparents when they were
driving my dad to a Muggle orphanage, telling him they didn't want him
anymore, that no Squib was good enough to be their son? What if someone
had been there to Imperio them, and force them to take him back home, and
make them love him the way parents are supposed to love their kids? Are
you telling me you'd have decided not to do it because only 'bad' people use
Unforgivable Curses?"

James stammered, shocked at the quiet ferocity in Ralph's eyes.
"Ralph, I… no. I mean…"
Ralph shook his head and looked away. "I can't blame you for not
understanding that, James. But honestly, if using an Unforgivable Curse
could bring back the people you'd thought were lost forever, wouldn't you
do it? If it could return the things that were taken from you by people who
were stupid and selfish and mean… wouldn't you?" Ralph looked at James
again, his eyes bright. "Because I'd do it, James. I really would. Without a
second thought."
With that, Ralph pushed past James and walked into the dimness of the
corridor. James knew there was no point in following him, but he was
frightened by the things Ralph had said. He'd never seen such passion in the
big boy before, but apparently, it had been there all along, just under the
surface.
Rose caught up to James, shaking her head worriedly. "We'll have to
corner Scorpius in the common room," she said. "He's still back there
surrounded by everybody. He's showing them how to do the Levicorpus
jinx. What's the matter?"
James shook his head, still looking after Ralph. "I don't know, Rose.
None of this is going the way it's supposed to. And to tell you the truth, I
don't have any idea what I'm supposed to do about it."
"I'll tell you what you need to do about it, James," Rose said seriously.
James glanced at her, furrowing his brow. "And what would that be?"
"Same thing you did last year when you ran into trouble," Rose
replied, arching her eyebrows. "Go ask for help from somebody who does
know what to do."

By the beginning of next week, James had still not spoken to Scorpius
about his speech at the last Defence Club. It wasn't that he hadn't had the
opportunity; it was more that he simply didn't know what to say. James
knew Scorpius only well enough to know that if he demanded Scorpius not
teach Unforgivable Curses to the club, Scorpius would probably begin the
next meeting with them. He considered simply removing Scorpius as
teacher for the club, but the fact of the matter was that Scorpius was a fairly
good teacher, and he did seem to know an awful lot.
The worst part was that James was unable to discuss the problem with
Ralph since Ralph apparently wanted to learn the curses. James could sort
of understand the things Ralph had said, but all the reasons Ralph had listed
for learning the curses were already in the past. Learning the curses now
wouldn't bring back James' grandparents or Ted's dad. Perhaps Ralph
thought there were more such tragedies to come and he wanted to be
prepared for them. Either way, it was worrying. Ralph had been moody and
quiet ever since the conversation in the hall, and James decided it was best
just to leave him alone for a while.
Fortunately, James was completely distracted from all these things for
a short while during Tuesday's Care of Magical Creatures class. Hagrid led
the students around to the back of the barn, shushing them and keeping
them behind him with one enormous hand.
"Grawp's getting rather good at this," Hagrid whispered, "but we don't
want to distract 'im. It's ticklish work, walkin' a dragon."
As the group crept around the edge of the barn, James peered past
Ralph, struggling to see. In the near distance, just at the edge of the Forest,

Grawp was walking very slowly, looking back over his shoulder. He
seemed to have something like an iron door strapped to his left forearm like
a shield. A very thick chain led from Grawp's upraised right hand, ending at
a collar on Norberta's long neck. Amazingly, the dragon was ambling
docilely behind Grawp, sniffing at the trees and occasionally rooting her
snout into the ground, snapping at something.
"Norberta likes a nice fat mole, she does," Hagrid whispered. "And she
can smell 'em right through the earth. She'd be great pest control if she
didn't occasionally set the trees afire. Today's nice an' wet though, so I knew
it'd be safe to give 'er a walkie."
"What happens if she flames on Grawp?" Morgan Patonia asked. "Is
that what that iron door is for?"
Hagrid shook his head. "She loves Grawp even more'n me. She'd never
flame 'im. The shield is just an extra safety measure. Last year,
Headmistress McGonagall insisted he always wear it when he took
Norberta out. S'just habit now."
Grawp tugged at the chain lead as Norberta hung back, sniffing at a
tree trunk. Ponderously, she leaned against the tree and rubbed on it, as if
scratching an itch. The tree shuddered and groaned, leaning noticeably.
"I wonder who'd win in a fight," Graham whispered, grinning, "the
Whomping Willow or Norberta?"
"That's stupid," Ashley replied, shaking her head.
"I'd pay to see it," Graham said. "Battle of the Magical Titans. Just
imagine it."
Ashley rolled her eyes. "I am imagining it, and it's stupid."
"Don't let her knock that tree over, Grawpy," Hagrid called as quietly
as he could, cupping his hands to his mouth. "That's a Grimlock Elm. Not
many of 'em left!"

Grawp tugged harder on the chain lead, but Norberta was stubborn.
She rapped her tail on the hillside in annoyance, producing a perceptible
shudder in the earth. She seemed to be sniffing at something just inside the
perimeter of the trees. She clawed at the ground, pulling Grawp and
pushing the trees apart with her massive shoulders. She snorted a small
burst of yellow flame.
"What's she after?" Hagrid asked worriedly. "Er, maybe yeh lot should
head back around the barn again. Just for safety's sake."
None of the students obeyed. Instead, they pushed forward, curious to
see what was happening, although none ventured in front of Hagrid himself.
"Easy, Grawpy!" Hagrid called in a strangely small voice. "Not too
hard! Give her just a little slack. We don't want to make her mad now. What
the—"
Something small and yellow had suddenly flown out of the trees, as if
frightened by Norberta's rooting. It fluttered between her legs and arced up,
streaking into the grey sky.
"Oh no," Hagrid said in a worried voice. "I wondered where she'd got
to."
With a violent, serpentine lunge, Norberta spun, her entire body
trailing behind her head and her open, snapping jaws. Grawp was yanked
entirely off his feet, refusing to let go of the chain. He landed with an
enormous, muddy thump and slid along the wet grass, pulled by Norberta's
wild thrashing.
"Everybody inside!" Hagrid yelled, shooting out both arms
protectively. "It's a Wargle I got from Viktor Krum, and Norberta's just daft
about it. It got loose a few days ago, but I figured it'd be halfway back to
Bulgaria by now. Grawp! Hold 'er down! Don' let go, no matter what!"
The ground shuddered as Norberta thundered after the yellow creature,

pulling Grawp along behind her. Great muddy streaks tore up the hillside in
their wake. None of the students had budged. James stared at the spectacle,
wide-eyed, unsure if it was amusing or frightening. The Wargle was about
the size of a cat but canary yellow and with four fluttering wings. A long,
tufted tail trailed behind it, whipping the air. James thought the creature
looked almost impossibly cute. Norberta thrashed and leapt, snapping her
jaws wildly, barely missing the fluttering, swooping shape. Thumping along
behind, Grawp was heroically pulling himself up the chain, trying to reach
Norberta's neck.
"That's it, Grawpy," Hagrid cheered, beginning to trot uncertainly out
onto the hilltop. "I'll grab 'er tail if I can. You get 'er by the neck! Oh!"
The Wargle suddenly angled upwards, streaking into the sky beyond
Norberta's reach. With a massive flourish, the dragon unfurled her wings
and brought them down with a single, thunderous thrust. She leapt off the
ground, roaring and pulling Grawp with her.
"I thought she couldn't fly!" Graham exclaimed. The students began to
shuffle nervously backwards, moving toward the relative shelter of the barn.
As if sensing a hiding place, the Wargle arced downwards again,
angling toward the crowd of students. Norberta thrashed her wings and
lunged. She was amazingly fast for her size despite her injured wing.
Students scattered in all directions as her shadow darkened the sky
overhead. Hagrid ran back and forth, arms outstretched, as if he meant to
catch the enormous dragon.
"Hold on, Grawp!" he called to his half-brother, who swung gamely
from the chain lead, leaving a trail of mud gobbets. "You've got 'er! Don' let
go!"
Norberta roared again, struggling to stay airborne. Her tail thrashed as
she flapped, striking the chimney of the barn and obliterating it to flying
bits of stone. The Wargle circled in a panic. Finally, the yellow creature
seemed to sense that Norberta couldn't properly fly. It swooped upwards,
aiming for the distant clouds.

"Grawp!" Hagrid called suddenly. "Shield! She's going to flame!"
Norberta gave one last thrust of her massive wings, stretched out her
long neck, and roared. This time, the roar produced a long stream of bluewhite flame. Heat blasted out over the hilltop. James felt it ripple through
his hair. And then, with a reverberating thump, the dragon landed on all
four claws. Grawp came down right next to her. He was covered in mud and
bits of grass, but he instantly leapt up and threw his arms around the great
dragon's neck, holding her down. The dragon didn't seem prepared to
attempt flight again. She raised her head full length, jaws wide open. A
moment later, a small black shape tumbled out of the sky, trailing smoke. It
fell straight into Norberta's gullet and she swallowed audibly.
Hagrid shook his head. "Shame 'bout that," he said. "Wargles is hard to
come by. I warned 'er, I did. Ah well, so long as nobody's hurt. Grawpy, are
yeh all right, then?"
Grawp tentatively let go of the dragon's neck, and stepped away, still
holding the chain lead. He glanced back at Hagrid. "Grawp got mud in
nose," he said ponderously.
"Sorry 'bout that, Grawpy. Let's go ahead and put the old girl back in
'er pen, eh?" He turned back to the students, his face red and imploring. "It's
prob'ly best if we, er, kep' that between ourselves, if yeh don' mind."
James glanced aside at Trenton, who had earlier threatened to write his
parents about Hagrid's rather frightening menagerie.
"That," Trenton said, noticing James' look, "was totally bloody
awesome."
As James and Ralph were heading back from the barn, they passed the
greenhouses where Professor Longbottom's first-year Herbology class was
just letting out. James spied Scorpius.
"I'll see you at lunch, Ralph," James called as he trotted away. "Places

to go, people to see."
Ralph didn't reply, and James knew why. The bigger boy knew what
James was up to. Scorpius heard James coming and stopped, turning back.
"I wondered when I'd be hearing from you, Potter," he said, staring up
at the low clouds.
"Yeah, well, I wanted to talk to you about Defence Club."
"Of course," Scorpius smiled thinly. "Come to talk me out of teaching
the hardcore spells, did you?"
"Actually, no," James replied. "I've been thinking about it. I can't stop
you from showing people what you learned from your family, and besides,
if people don't learn those things from you, they'll learn them from Corsica
and Goyle. I came to you because…"
James couldn't quite bring himself to say it. He knew Rose's advice
had been right, but he just hadn't known when or where he was supposed to
use it. Now he did. Finally, he took a deep breath and said through gritted
teeth, "I came to ask for your help."
"My help?" Scorpius replied suspiciously. "With what?"
"With getting Tabitha and the rest under control," James answered.
"Look, you know it even better than me. They don't want to learn jinxes and
hexes and curses to fight the bad guys. They just want to use them to be
bullies and get power over people. The Defence Club was supposed to be a
way for people to learn basic fighting spells and techniques, but I think it
can be even more than that. I think we can use it to practice the things
Professor Debellows is teaching us about how to be real fighters. We can
practice the Artis Decerto techniques he's showing us and get really good at
them. Then we can put those skills together with the spells we've already
learned, and later, when everyone is ready to know how to use them…,"
James gulped, "you can teach the Unforgiveable Curses, if you still want
to."

"Let's see if I understand this," Scorpius said. "You started the Defence
Club because you didn't like the fact that Debellows wasn't teaching any
defensive magic. And now you want to turn the club into a place to practice
the silly stuff that he is teaching us?"
James sighed. "Yeah, all right, you make it sound totally stupid. But
that's pretty much the truth of it. Either way, if Corsica and Goyle and even
Albus keep coming to the club and killing the target dummies, they're just
going to push for the Unforgivable Curses and bypass everything else.
Maybe some people can handle knowing the Unforgivable Curses, but not
everybody can. And definitely not without learning the basics first."
"So kick them out," Scorpius shrugged. "You run the club. You decide
who's in it. It isn't my problem."
"I can't just kick them out," James said, exasperated. "Anybody who
wants to come to the club can. But you know how to talk to them! It was
totally brilliant the way you handled them last club meeting. Your family
understands the way Slytherins think! I need you to help keep them from
taking over."
Scorpius narrowed his eyes. "Just because my father convinced me to
help get you through the Mirror of Erised, doesn't mean I'm your mate,
Potter. I teach your club because I want to, not because you asked. Who are
you to decide who gets to know the Unforgivable Curses or not?"
James stared at Scorpius thoughtfully. "I don't think you even believe
that yourself," he said. "You're just trying to make me mad at you, and I
don't even know why. If you thought everyone who wished should be able
to learn the Killing Curse, you'd have taught it last class, or let Corsica and
Goyle do it. Instead, you spent your time distracting everybody with stuff
like the Levicorpus jinx. Admit it or not, you agree with me, Scorpius."
"You're delusional, Potter," Scorpius said, turning on his heel. "Why
would I agree with you?"

"Because," James called, watching the pale boy walk away, "you're
also a Gryffindor. And I think the Sorting Hat knew what it was doing."
Scorpius didn't stop. He simply continued to walk away, heading
toward the castle. James watched for a moment, then sighed and followed.
He could only hope that despite Scorpius' attitude, he'd at least think about
what James had asked.

Eventually, Albus told James how it had happened.
Thursday evening came and Tabitha, Philia, and Albus were on their
way to the gym for Defence Club. While they were still several corridors
away, Scorpius met them coming from the other direction.
"Just turn around and walk with me," he said in a low voice, trying to
put his arms around both Tabitha and Albus.
"Remove your hand or pick it up wherever it lands," Tabitha said,
pointing her wand at Scorpius' wrist.
"Touchy, touchy," Scorpius replied, pulling his hands away. "And here
I am trying to help you."
Albus scoffed. "As if we needed your help, you prat."
"Believe it or not, I am indeed saving you a bit of bother," Scorpius
growled, looking Albus in the eye. "Your brother's little club is about to be

disbanded, and I don't expect it will go well for those who are in attendance
when it happens."
Philia's face was etched with suspicion. "What do you mean?"
"Some concerned individual has alerted Professor Debellows that
students are being taught defensive magic and curses, all in an effort to
undermine his teaching technique. They also allowed it to slip that some
students have even been seen practicing the Killing Curse."
Tabitha studied Scorpius' face. "How perfectly devious. But tell me,
why would you do such a thing?"
"Did I say it was me?" Scorpius asked innocently.
"He's lying," Albus said. "He wouldn't do that to his housemates."
"You might want to step aside a moment," Scorpius said, glancing
down the corridor. Voices were approaching quickly. Debellows stalked
around the corner, herding Rose ahead of him. She looked extremely
worried.
"So you and James Potter are responsible for this, eh?" Debellows said
gruffly. "He's the son of the Ministry's Head Auror, is he not? I should have
known he'd be trouble. I understood that there were three of you, though."
"Well," Rose quavered, "there are, in a manner of speaking. I guess
there's no point in hiding it anymore. You'll see for yourself soon enough."
As Debellows and Rose passed Scorpius, she gave him a wilting look.
Scorpius grinned crookedly.
As they swept on, Albus glared angrily at Scorpius. "Why would you
do that to my brother?"
"Is this how you repay me for my warning? I guess blood is indeed
thicker than water, isn't it?"

"Why, Scorpius?" Tabitha asked. "You're only making things harder
for yourself with your housemates."
"My housemates are a bunch of arrogant sissies," Scorpius growled.
"They don't have the spine to learn real magic. It became obvious to me last
week that you lot are the ones I need to partner with. Yes, yes," he said,
raising his hand as Philia opened her mouth, "I'm a Gryffindor. What do
names mean? If names meant everything, little Albus would have to duel to
the death with both of you. Slytherins and Potters have always been mortal
enemies, haven't they? Obviously, we're past that, and for good reason. I'm
not asking to be a member of your silly Fang and Talons club. I am merely
suggesting that perhaps we start a new club, and perhaps it meet in the
Slytherin casting range, where we can feel free to practice whatever we
wish in secrecy."
"And you'd deign to teach us?" Philia demanded, smiling grimly.
"I think not," Scorpius answered. "The fact is I'd not be able to attend
regularly. Besides, I imagine it as more a group practice session. We can all
learn from one another, and no one will be there to tell us what we shouldn't
know. I would, however, require access to the Slytherin quarters. It seems
like small payment for today's favor. Besides, as you implied last week,
Tabitha, my family does have a rather long Slytherin history."
"You little rat," Philia said. "All this just because you hate that you've
been made a Gryffindor."
"Having a ring key does not make you a member of Slytherin House,"
Tabitha said, tilting her head and smiling. "No Gryffindor can be allowed
free access to our quarters. However… I suspect we can come to an
agreeable arrangement."
"That's all I ask," Scorpius answered brightly. "And now I should be
running along. It will look rather suspicious if I am not there when the
hammer falls on James' little club. We'll chat soon."

Tabitha, Philia, and Albus watched Scorpius turn and trot off in the
direction that Debellows had led Rose.
A few minutes later, Scorpius passed the closed doorway of the
gymnasium. He could see through the pebbled glass window that it was
dark inside. He stopped and listened. A moment later, he heard voices
further down the corridor, echoing. He followed the sounds, turning left at
the next passage. It opened onto a high hall with windows on one side.
James and Rose stood with Debellows in the center of the marble floor.
They were all staring straight up, craning their necks. Debellows had his
wand upraised, aiming it carefully. Overhead, Ralph hung by his ankle,
suspended high in midair.
"We were just trying it out," James explained. "It's called the
Levicorpus jinx. I didn't know it'd take a counter-jinx to get him back down
again."
"Hold on, Ralph!" Rose cried, wringing her hands in a parody of
worry.
Debellows shook his head disgustedly. "This is exactly the reason I do
not teach defensive magic to younger years," he snapped. "No concept
whatsoever of the consequences. It's a good thing you didn't accidentally
learn the Bat-Bogey Hex. That was a favorite in my day. Liberacorpus!"
Debellows flicked his wand and Ralph spun upright. A moment later, he
drifted clumsily to the floor.
"Whoa," Ralph said shakily. "Dizzy."
"I apologize, Professor Debellows," Scorpius called from the doorway.
"It's my fault. I learned that jinx from my grandfather. I should've known
better than to show anyone how to do it. I've certainly learned my lesson."
"I should hope so," Debellows said gruffly. "If I was a less gracious
man, I'd subtract points from whatever your houses are, but I'll take your
word for it that it'll never happen again." He pocketed his wand and turned

to Rose. "You interrupted a perfectly good pipe, I'll have you know, young
lady. But never mind. Are there any other magical mishaps I might address
before I return to my quarters?"
All four students shook their heads enthusiastically.
"Thank you, Professor," Rose said breathlessly. "It really is a pleasure
to see someone of your stature at work."
"Well," Debellows replied, smoothing his robes, "of course, I
understand. Good evening, students. And like I said, don't call me
'Professor'. The name's Kendrick."
"Kendrick," Rose said, as if enthralled with the very syllables. "Thank
you, sir. Goodnight."
When Debellows finally left, Scorpius came alongside Rose, James,
and Ralph. "I think I'm going to be sick," he said.
"I'll say," Ralph agreed. "You were supposed to act appreciative, Rose.
Not like you worshipped the ground under his feet."
"It was nothing," Rose replied as if she'd been complimented. "I
mastered that technique years ago with my father."
James grinned. "You're a little scary, Rose. Come on! Let's get to the
gym. Scorpius, how'd it go with Tabitha, Philia, and Albus?"
"As well as planned," Scorpius said, shrugging. "They believed my
story the moment they saw Debellows march past. They won't be back."
James reached the door to the gym first. He yanked it open and
stepped inside, lighting his wand. In the darkness, the club members sat in
groups, whispering excitedly. They looked up as the four entered.
"All right," James said, holding his wand over his head. "Hi,
everybody. Like I said a few minutes ago, we have an announcement today.

After last week, there was a lot of talk about learning the three Unforgivable
Curses. Scorpius is the teacher, so what we learn is up to him. But before
we get to anything really scary powerful, we're going to get better at what
we do know, and spend some time practicing the techniques Professor
Debellows has been showing us in D.A.D.A."
"Why in the world would we do that?" Nolan Beetlebrick said,
standing up. "I thought the whole point of this club was to learn the stuff he
wasn't teaching us."
Scorpius answered, "The point of this club is to learn defensive
techniques and become the best at them as we can. Some of you just want
to learn a few quick incantations and curses? Be my guest. But if you think
you'll be able to duel half as well as the rest of us after we've mastered the
kind of skills Debellows showed us the other day, I think you'll end up very
disappointed."
Ralph surprised James by speaking up. "I know it isn't very exciting to
practice all the drills and exercises Debellows has showed us. That's why
we're going to keep working on the spells and magic too. But James is right.
We have to learn it all together. It's the only way we'll really be the best we
can be. But maybe some of you aren't happy with that. If so, remember it's
just a club, not a class. You can go anytime you want."
Nolan Beetlebrick was still on his feet. He saw that everyone was
looking at him. He shuffled his feet a little. "So who's going to be teaching
us this Artis Decerto stuff? Him?" he exclaimed, pointing at Scorpius. "I
doubt his grandfather taught him any of that."
"No," James said, glancing at Scorpius. "We have another teacher for
that. He didn't learn it himself, but he'll be working alongside someone who
knows it very well. Together, they'll be leading that part of the club from
now on."
"Yeah?" Beetlebrick said, putting his hands on his hips. "And who's
that?"

"Me," a voice answered. Beetlebrick jumped and took a step
backwards as two ghosts flitted through the wall next to him. "And her."
James smiled as Cedric moved into the center of the room, emanating
his own soft light in the dark space. Next to him, the Grey Lady floated
gently.
Beetlebrick sat down on the floor again, staring in awe at Cedric and
the tall, pale woman.
Rose cleared her throat. "Maybe it'd be helpful if you explained a little
background, Cedric."
Cedric glanced back at Rose and nodded. "Of course," he said to the
assembled club members. "I'm Cedric Diggory, and I guess you all know
who she is. This is the Grey Lady. She says she'd prefer that I not tell any of
you her real name. But the point is she knows Artis Decerto. Apparently, it
was common for ladies to learn the defensive arts in her time, and… well,
her mother thought it might be very helpful for her to be very well-trained."
The Grey Lady spoke in a thin, faraway voice. "I was tutored under the
very best teacher of martial magic in the world. He confided that I was one
of his most gifted pupils."
Most of those in the room had seen the Grey Lady flitting morosely
around the halls, but few had ever heard her voice. Graham Warton raised
his hand tentatively. "Who was it that taught you Artis Decerto, Miss?"
The Lady looked at him and tilted her head slightly. "My father. He
invented the art."
"Look," Beetlebrick said, "I don't mean any disrespect, but I have to
ask. If you were all that great at dodging spells and curses like Debellows
did the other day, then how did you end up getting killed so young?"
The Grey Lady seemed unperturbed by Beetlebrick's question. She

opened her ghostly shawl, revealing the front of her dress. An ugly knife
wound stained the dress, still as red as the day it had been inflicted. "As you
can see," she answered, "it wasn't a spell that killed me."
James leaned toward Rose. "You've got your wish, Rose," he
whispered. "We've got a woman teaching us Artis Decerto after all."

"I'm really enjoying the new stuff we're learning in Defence Club,
James," Cameron Creevey said as he followed James down the stairs late
Saturday morning. "Whoever would have thought that the Grey Lady had a
seventh-degree mastery of martial magic! She always seemed so calm and
feeble, didn't she? And with Cedric Diggory's ghost helping her teach, I
mean, wow! Who would have thought it!"
"Yeah, Cameron," James said, walking as fast as he could. "I'm glad
you like the club."
They passed a group of older students by the main doors, all of whom
were dressed in jeans and jumpers or jackets, babbling excitedly. Professor
McGonagall stood at the head of the queue, accepting and inspecting the
small parchments each student handed her.
"Yes, yes, Mr. Metzker, no point in making a show of it," she said as
Noah flourished his permission slip. "Off you go. And if I catch you with
any more of those awful Peruvian ballistic beans, it'll be more than
deducted House points, I can assure you. Who's next?"
"Pity you can't come, James," Damien called as James pushed past the
queue, heading out into the courtyard. "Hogsmeade weekends being only

for third-years and older, you know." He waggled his eyebrows and
grinned. Sabrina elbowed him in the stomach.
"I wish I could go to Hogsmeade," Cameron said wistfully, staring
after the departing students. "Still, I'm sure there's a very good reason
younger years can't go."
"Yeah," James said, stopping at the courtyard gate and turning to the
younger boy. "Well, anyway, Cameron, I'm sure you have other things to do
today. Don't let me keep you."
Cameron shook his head happily. "No, actually, I don't have a thing to
do. I was sort of hoping that—"
"James!" Rose called, panting as she ran across the courtyard to meet
him. "Ralph's coming. He insisted on borrowing a Sneakoscope from
Trenton Bloch, the blighter. That warning from Zane's sure got him on high
alert, especially today, since… er. Hi, Cameron."
"Hi, Rose," Cameron grinned cheerfully. "What's going on?"
Rose glanced at James, frowning a little. "Oh. What? Nothing. You
know. Saturday this-and- that. Same as usual. Boring, really."
"What's your friend Ralph need a Sneakoscope for?"
James put his arm around Cameron, trying to steer him back toward
the front entrance. "You know, Cameron, today would be a great day to
practice up on some drills and exercises. The gym's open all day. I bet you
could even find some other club members to join you."
"Well, why don't you three join me?" Cameron said, ducking under
James' arm. "Since you don't have any plans yourselves."
Rose cleared her throat. "It isn't that we don't have any plans exactly,
Cameron. They're just, er…"

"Secret," James interjected, at exactly the same moment that Rose said,
"Boring."
"Secret, er, boring plans," James went on, nodding. "Club stuff.
Scheduling and counting members and… and…"
"And planning field trips!" Rose added, brightening.
"We're going to go on a Defence Club field trip?" Cameron asked,
furrowing his brow.
"Sure," James replied. "It's a secret, so keep it to yourself. But we're
going to go to, er…"
"Er," Rose chimed, "the Forbidden Forest, with Hagrid, to practice
Artis Decerto against some…"
"Some centaurs!" James supplied. He nodded. "Yeah, that sounds
about right."
Cameron looked vaguely puzzled. "Centaurs know Artis Decerto?"
"Sure," Rose said confidently. "They practically invented it. I mean,
they didn't really invent it, obviously, but practically… Anyway, it's a big
secret, so don't tell anyone about it yet, all right?"
"Hey, everybody," Ralph said as he approached, shouldering his
satchel. "We're all ready to go—"
"To Hagrid's," James interrupted, nodding at Ralph fervently. "To talk
about the field trip. Yeah, I suppose he'll be expecting us any minute. So,
anyway, see you around, Cameron."
Cameron looked at James, Rose, and Ralph in succession, his eyes
slightly narrowed, then he smiled cheerfully. "Yeah! Sure. I'll keep it a
secret. I've never seen a centaur in person. That'll be excellent!"

"Centaurs?" Ralph said, turning to James. "You never said anything
about—"
"Cool!" James interrupted. "Yeah, thanks, Cam. Hush-hush, right? See
you later."
Cameron nodded and backed away. Finally, he turned and headed back
toward the castle entrance.
"What in the world was all that about?" Ralph asked as the three
students ran around the corner of the gate.
"James' secret admirer," Rose said. "We had to come up with
something fast so he wouldn't tail us around all day."
"Do you think you can remember the secret knot?" James asked,
changing the subject.
Rose answered, "Gennifer marked it with a spot of green paint. It looks
like moss unless you get up close. Should be pretty easy to find if you know
what to look for."
As they crested the hill and came in sight of the Whomping Willow,
James found a long stick beneath a birch. He smiled, showing it to Ralph
and Rose. Rose nodded seriously.
"You're on secret knot duty, then, James," she said. "Just give it a good
poke. We'll follow you into the entrance between the roots once the Willow
goes still."
James gripped the stick and approached the tree. The Willow seemed
to sense his intent. It reared slightly, creaking its roots, and whipping its
thinnest branches threateningly.
"Stay low," Ralph called. "You'll need to get just inside the shadow of

the tree to reach the knot. The big branches can't reach you, but those little
green ones might if you're too high."
James hunkered as low as he could until he was crawling forward on
his hands and knees. The tree swished and groaned over him. A whip-like
green branch swung at him, trying to wrench the stick out of his hand. It
missed, but James felt the breeze of its passage.
"Careful," Rose cried in a thin voice. "Just right there! Slowly!"
James reached as far as he could, staring down the length of the stick
at its wavering tip. He could see the spot of green paint applied earlier in
the term by Gennifer Tellus. This close up, he could see that she'd painted it
in the shape of a tiny smiley face. The Whomping Willow creaked
ponderously and James felt its shadow leaning over him. He lunged and
poked with the stick, striking the knot dead-on.
"That's it!" Rose cried. James heard both Ralph and Rose running
forward. He scrambled up, slipping on the wet grass. Clumsily, he hurled
himself forward into the dark crack between the Willow's massive roots. He
landed with a thud in the mossy hollow beneath the tree. A moment later, he
heard and felt the entrance of Ralph and Rose. They landed on either side of
him, barely missing him in the damp darkness. James laughed in relief. He
began to climb to his feet when a fourth shape hurtled through the entrance,
bowling directly into James. A knee bounced off his chest, knocking the
wind out of him. There was a chorus of angry and surprised shouts.
"What the—" Ralph cried, scrambling up and snatching after the
intruder. He caught the figure by the collar just as Rose whipped out her
wand.
"Lumos!" she cried, holding it up.
The wandlight sprayed over the skinny shape of Cameron Creevey,
held suspended by Ralph's grip. The boy had dirt and bits of bark on his
face. He grinned gamely.

"Hi, guys," he said, panting. "Some field trip, eh?"

15. OUT OF HOGSMEADE
"I couldn't help it," Cameron said as the four traipsed along the length of
the tunnel. "I just knew you were up to something exciting! I saw you
heading out toward the Whomping Willow and I remembered reading that
there had been a secret passage there, back in our parents' day. They say it
was all sealed off after the battle, but still, I knew you three could find a
way through if you wanted. So I followed along. I was about to call out to
you, but then the tree stopped moving and you all ran toward it! I did the
first thing that came to mind and ran after you. It was a near thing too! The
Willow came back alive just as I got under it! It swiped at me and barely
missed!"
"Stupid, lazy tree," Ralph muttered.

"Cameron, that was a very reckless thing to do," Rose said reprovingly,
still holding her wand aloft to light the way.
"Well, you can't blame me, can you?" Cameron protested shrilly. "I've
read all the Harry Potter stories at least a dozen times! When I saw you
sneaking off, I knew you were going on some big secret adventure! I just
wanted to see it in person. I promise I won't get in the way!"
"Those stories are all rubbish, Cameron," James grumbled, not really
believing it. "My dad says that he couldn't even read them all the way
through. They make it all seem like an exciting romp, but it was mostly
really scary and people dying and buckets of dumb luck."
"Oh, I know," Cameron enthused. "Believe me, I understand all that. I
know Revalvier's books are cleaned up a little bit. I mean, they were written
to be children's stories. But still, my dad says they got the main parts all
right. And your dad really did fight Voldemort and defeat him, all because
of the protection his mum gave him when she died to save him. That part
wasn't made-up, was it?"
"Look, Cam," James began a little angrily, but Rose cleared her throat
and nudged him.
"We weren't the only ones to lose relatives in the fight against
Voldemort," she said softly.
James remembered. Cameron's Uncle Colin had been killed during the
Battle of Hogwarts. James sighed. "All right, Cameron, I guess you've a
right to come along today as any of us. But trust me, there aren't going to be
any grand adventures."
"There better not be," Ralph said darkly.
"I told you, Ralph," Rose said, "the tunnel to Hogsmeade is technically
a part of Hogwarts. It's under the protection Merlin gave the castle. We're
safe here."

Ralph didn't seem particularly relieved. "Yeah, well, what about when
we get to Hogsmeade? Are you going to tell me that somehow the whole
village is 'technically a part of Hogwarts'?"
"Arguably, it could be," she answered. "It's probably the last vestige of
the fief that once surrounded the castle. But either way, there will be loads
of people there. Not even… er, someone really powerful would attack us
with all those crowds around. Besides, no one has seen the Headmaster for
almost two weeks, have they?"
"I saw him just yesterday," Cameron piped up. "He was in the hall
outside the common room, just walking along like he was on a stroll."
James glanced back at Cameron. "You saw Merlin in the castle? Are
you sure it was him? I thought he was off travelling somewhere. That's
what Professor Longbottom said."
"I guess he got back, didn't he?" Cameron replied. "What? I thought
you all liked Headmaster Merlin."
"Sure, Cam," Rose said. "We like him well enough. We just, er,
wouldn't want to get caught sneaking off the grounds like this."
Cameron grinned. "Oh, you three won't get caught. That wouldn't
make a very good story, would it?"
James was becoming rather annoyed with Cameron. "This isn't a
'story', you know. Merlin knows when things are going on around the
school. If he's here…"
"Let's not spook ourselves," Rose said soothingly. "We're not doing
anything terrible. We just want to get a look around Hogsmeade, that's all.
Nothing bad is going to happen. Cameron's probably right. It wouldn't make
a very good story if we were all captured and horribly dispatched by some
waiting enemy in the Shrieking Shack…," her voice trailed off
uncomfortably. "Er… would it?"

"Depends on what kind of story it is," Ralph said gloomily.
They walked in nervous silence for awhile. Eventually, the tunnel
began to slope upwards. It ended at a jumble of broken crates and bits of
furniture, all covered with dust and cobwebs. Beyond was only thick
darkness.
"We must be at the Shack," Rose said in a whisper. "James, can we
make it through?"
"Just barely, if we move some of this rubbish around." James gingerly
began to stack some of the fallen crates. Dust puffed up at his efforts,
clouding Rose's wandlight. Spiders skittered on the walls.
"So we're at the Shrieking Shack, then?" Ralph asked in a quavering
voice. "Should we be expecting it to, you know, start shrieking?"
Rose answered, "It doesn't do that, Ralph. It's a long story, but there's
nothing to be afraid of here. At least, not anymore."
Ralph gulped. "Then why are you whispering?"
"There," James said, wiping his brow with his sleeve. "I can see
through. It's really dark, but if you duck right here we can get into the next
room."
James led the way, clambering through the small opening on his hands
and knees. He could see that the tunnel entrance had once been larger, but
the Shrieking Shack had deteriorated quite a lot in the years since the tunnel
had been used. Much of the wall had crumbled around the opening and the
ceiling overhead had partially collapsed.
"Whoa," Cameron said in awe as the four students dusted themselves
off. "This is where it all happened! This is where Harry Potter learned the
truth about Sirius Black! I bet it was right over there that Black almost
killed the rat, Peter Pettigrew!"

"Thanks for the play-by-play, Cam," James muttered. "Come on, let's
get out—"
Cameron gasped, causing everyone to jump. "It must have been right
here that Voldemort ordered his snake Nagini to attack Professor Snape!"
Cameron said breathlessly. "He probably died right where you're standing,
Ralph!"
"Can you, like, stop talking about who killed who in this very room,
Cameron?" Ralph exclaimed. "It's not like the place needs any more
ambiance."
"Oh," Cameron said sheepishly. "Yeah. Er, sorry."
Slowly, the four made their way upstairs, stepping carefully through a
strew of broken furniture and collapsed ceilings and walls. The
deterioration of the Shrieking Shack was severe enough that James worried
the place might simply collapse on top of them. Wind whistled and moaned
through cracks in the walls, making the entire house creak. As they reached
the main floor, broken windows let in enough daylight that Rose could
finally extinguish her wand.
"There's the door," Cameron said, pointing. Remarkably, the old door
was still intact and fit snugly enough in its warped frame that the four of
them had to pull the handle simultaneously to budge it open.
"I sure am glad to be out of there," Ralph said, jumping off the sagging
porch. "I think the only thing holding that place up is force of habit."
James glanced back at the Shack. "Let's just hope it holds up for at
least a few more hours."
"It occurs to me," Ralph said, looking at James and Rose, "that this is
an awful lot to go through just to get some Drooble's Best Blowing gum and
say hi to Ted."

Rose shook her head and trotted along the path leading toward the
village. "Oh, come on, Ralph. Where's your sense of adventure?"
"I think I used it all up last year."
James smiled. "The worst part's behind us, Ralphinator. Come on, it'll
be fun!"
"Hurry up, you guys," Cameron called, halfway between Rose and the
two boys. "I have to use the toilet!"
Ralph rolled his eyes, and then grinned at James. "Come on, I'll race
you!"

James, Ralph, Rose, and Cameron found their way to the High Street
and wandered along it, happily enamoured by the various shops and
bustling crowds. James and Ralph were debating whether to visit
Honeydukes or Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes first when Rose exclaimed in
delight, pointing.
"Scrivenshaft's?" James said as Rose hurried forward. "You want to go
to the quill shop first?"
"I know I won't be able to afford much of anything," Rose replied,
pushing through the door and jingling the bell, "but I can't wait to see what
the new Heddelbum self-inking dodo tips are like. Oh, look! They have an
actual working Recalls-It-All pen! It remembers everything you write and
can duplicate it perfectly!"

"Now that would be handy," James said, his eyes widening. "A pen
that can take your tests for you. How much?"
Rose glanced at James disdainfully. "It's really amazing how hard
you'll work to avoid the simplest schoolwork, James."
"Yeah," James answered, "Uncle Ron would be proud."
The four of them worked their way along the street, stopping in at most
of the shops along the way. Cameron bought a new wand holder at Hiram
and Blattwott's Leathers and immediately sheathed his wand in it. He
showed it to James and Ralph.
"Protects the finish while simultaneously enhancing magical
properties!" Cameron proclaimed proudly, reading directly from the tag.
"The inside is lined with suede and enriched with Wymnot's Wand Polish
and Enchant-Enhancer. It cleans and empowers my wand every time I put it
away!"
"That's great, Cam," Ralph nodded. "Er, looks really dashing too."
"Thanks!" Cameron grinned. "Hey, can we stop at the newsstand? I
want to see if the new issue of Stupendous Stories is available."
The newsstand stood on the corner of the High Street and
Guddymutter Avenue, and it was the only two-story newsstand James had
ever seen. A spiral staircase on the side led to a narrow wrought-iron
walkway that encircled the second level. The walkway was packed with
wizards and witches browsing every type of newspaper and magazine
imaginable. The very peak of the newsstand was a noisy miniature Owlery,
twittering with birds of all sizes. They seemed to be coming and going at
every moment, each owl attended to by a small man installed at a round
desk in the center. As each owl arrived, the little man spun on his chair to
retrieve its parcel. Most of these seemed to be small strips of parchment
rolled like scrolls and inserted into brass tubes on the owls' legs. As the man
removed the message, he'd turn to a speaking tube and read its contents.

The speaking tube carried the man's voice through a complicated curlicue of
expanding pipes and bellows, eventually broadcasting his every word out
over the High Street.
"Breaking news from Turkey," the man read in a surprisingly deep,
baritone voice, "the Grand Vizier of the Wizarding Caliphate, Rajah
Hassajah, has died unexpectedly, to be replaced in interim by his assistant,
Ahmed al-Mustaphus. International wizarding bank authority to freeze all
transactions with the Caliphate until said crisis is satisfactorily managed.
Updates as events warrant."
"Oh, look who's on the cover of this month's Quibbler," Rose cried
delightedly, pulling a copy off a shelf on the lower level. James leaned over
Rose's shoulder, studying the tabloid in her hands. 'Daughter of Quibbler
Founder to Wed', read the cover headline alongside a photo of Luna
Lovegood happily accepting a ring from her new beau, Rolf Scamander.
The picture was obviously staged, but Luna's smile was genuine enough,
and the look of happy affection on Rolf's rather bug-like face was
unmistakable. In the photo, Luna took the ring, and then held it out to the
camera. It seemed to be made of amber with an insect embedded in it.
"That's been done," Ralph sniffed.
"Well, I'm happy for her," Rose said, replacing the tabloid on the rack.
"Luna's hoped to get married for a long time. She wants a family."
"How do you know that?" James asked, furrowing his brow. "I've
known Luna all my life and she's never said anything about that."
Rose looked aloof. "That's because you haven't been listening in on the
right conversations."
Overhead, the Owlery announcer spoke through his amplifying
apparatus, "In an update to previous reports, the mysterious sightings of
swarms of Dementors throughout Central London have only increased,
although no amount of investigation has been able to pinpoint the hive's
origin or predict the locations of any future oppressions. Further, the range

of the infestation appears to be increasing daily, reaching into neighboring
vicinities at an alarming rate. Muggle reportage of the incidents is gaining
precedent, although attributions of the effects are extremely varied. In a
breaking development, the Ministry of Magic has announced the creation of
an Auror sub-department to locate and subdue the hive. Meanwhile, many
concerned citizens of the magical world are departing the Central London
area until the unexplained oppressions are brought under control.
Continuing updates as events warrant."
Ralph's face had gone pale. "I heard something about those Dementor
swarms when I first went home for the holiday, but I didn't think anything
of it. It seems to have gotten a lot worse now. Do you think this is
connected to the descent of the Gatekeeper?"
"It must be," James said, remembering his earlier conversation with the
Headmaster. "Merlin told me that the Borleys were basically baby
Dementors. Maybe the Gatekeeper is something like the ultimate Dementor.
Maybe the Gatekeeper has assembled all the uncaptured Dementors and is
using them to begin its work on the earth!"
Rose shuddered. "That's an awful thought! If it's true, James, then our
parents might be in danger, since they work at the Ministry. Especially your
dad. If he's in charge of that Auror sub-department, he'll be chasing the
Gatekeeper and he won't even know it! We have to warn them!"
James knew Rose was right. He nodded. "I'll send Dad an owl as soon
as we get back tonight. I'll tell him everything we know so far."
"But why would the Gatekeeper be using Dementors?" Ralph asked. "I
thought it could affect humans directly?"
Rose answered, "It can, but only a few at a time, for now. It feeds on
fear and terror, so it's using the Dementors to get what it needs. But this
proves that it hasn't found its human host yet. Once it possesses the host, it
won't need the Dementors anymore. It'll become directly connected to the
community of mankind. It'll be able to affect loads of people all at once,
and nothing will be able to stop it."

"We need to get both halves of the Beacon Stone before that happens,"
James said fervently. "Whoever has the whole stone can still send the
Gatekeeper back into the Void, right?"
"We don't even know where Slytherin's half of the stone is," Ralph
lamented. "And the half that we do know about is on the finger of the most
powerful wizard in the world. This makes stealing Jackson's briefcase last
year look like a walk in the park."
James was unperturbed. "At least we know where Merlin's Beacon
ring is. We just need to find out who might have inherited Slytherin's
Beacon ring."
"Well, no problem there," Ralph said sarcastically. "We just need to
trace some mystical black ring through three dozen generations of dark
wizards. That should be a breeze!"
"What mystical black ring?" Cameron asked, returning with a
newsstand sack.
Rose rolled her eyes. "Nothing, Cameron. We're just trying to save the
world here. We do this every day, you know."
"Oh," Cameron said, frowning a little. "I just thought maybe you were
talking about the Gaunt family ring Headmaster Dumbledore gave your
dad."
As one, James, Ralph, and Rose looked at Cameron. He blinked at
them a little nervously.
"What ring, Cameron?" Ralph asked.
Cameron smiled crookedly, as if he was being teased. "You know. The
ring with the Resurrection Stone in it. It was one of the Deathly Hallows in
the last book. Headmaster Dumbledore captured it and gave it to Harry
Potter inside the Golden Snitch. You remember that, er… don't you?"

Rose, Ralph, and James exchanged looks. Rose said, "Could it really
be that simple?"
James' eyes widened thoughtfully. "Cameron, you know those books
pretty much frontwards and backwards, right? Tell us everything you
remember about that ring."
Cameron looked at James, a little puzzled, and then shrugged. "Well,
according to legend, the ring once belonged to Death, so it allowed the
holder to see and speak to dead people. It was passed on through
generations of Salazar Slytherin's relatives until it came to the Gaunt family.
Voldemort took the ring and used it as a, er, Horcrux," Cameron whispered
the last word as if it was a sort of swear word. He went on in his normal
voice. "Later, Dumbledore captured the ring and cracked the stone with
Gryffindor's sword, making it useless to Voldemort. After Dumbledore died,
he willed the stone to Harry Potter, hiding it inside his Snitch. In the book,
Harry uses the Resurrection Stone to speak to his dead parents when he's
going to confront Voldemort in the Forest. After that, no one knows what
became of the stone. Anyway, when you said something about a mysterious
black ring, I just thought that might be what you were talking about. My
mistake."
"Cameron," Rose said seriously, "I could kiss you, you silly geek.
That's brilliant!"
Cameron blushed fiercely and hugged his newsstand sack, grinning.
Ralph asked, "Do you really think the Resurrection Stone and the
Beacon Stone are the same thing?"
"It sure seems to fit," James replied. "It was black and set into a ring
and it was passed on by Salazar Slytherin through loads of generations."
Rose added, "And it allowed the bearer to see and communicate with
dead people because it came from the Void that all departed souls pass
through."

Ralph shuddered. "So whatever became of it? What happened to it
after that night in the Forest?"
"It's just like Cameron said," Rose sighed, "no one knows. If I
remember right, it was purposely left out of the books so that nobody would
be tempted to search for the stone again. It was presumed lost forever.
Nobody knows where it is, or even if it still exists."
James narrowed his eyes, thinking. He decided not to say anything, but
he knew of at least one person who did know what had become of the
Resurrection Stone. And James was one of the only people on earth who
could ask that person and possibly get an answer.
Eventually, the foursome made their way to the Three Broomsticks,
affectionately known among some of the older students as the 'Triple
Sticks'. They ordered Butterbeers and had a light dinner. Hogwarts students
packed the tables, talking boisterously and calling to each other. Sabrina,
Damien, and Gennifer Tellus jostled through the door just as James was
finishing his sausage. Damien grinned as they pushed their way through the
throng.
"Made it through the tunnel, I see," Damien called. "I'm a little jealous,
you know. We discovered that passageway first. I was hoping to be the first
to see the inside of the Shrieking Shack. How was it?"
"Barely standing," James answered. "You'll be lucky if it's still upright
when you go through yourself."
"Where's Noah and Petra?" Rose asked.
Gennifer rolled her eyes. "Oh, they're having a lover's spat over at
Madam Puddifoot's. I told them it'd be nothing but trouble if they started
dating."
"They aren't really dating," Sabrina said, pulling up a chair and sitting
down. "They're just snogging. It isn't exactly the same thing."

James glanced up sharply, surprised that he had somehow missed this
development. "How long have they been, er, snogging?"
"It started about a week before Christmas," Sabrina replied. "It's
probably all that rehearsing as lovers for the play that did it. You can only
pretend to fancy one another for so long before it leaks over into real life."
"James knows all about that," Ralph said, popping the last of his
sausage into his mouth. James sighed.
"So what are they fighting about?" Rose asked.
Damien gestured dramatically. "Noah saw Petra having some big,
heavy conversation with Ted behind Weasleys'. She was crying, and Ted
didn't look too happy either. Noah's quite the jealous type, you know."
"He should've known what he was getting into, dating his best friend's
former girl," Gennifer proclaimed loftily. "It spells trouble any way you
look at it."
Sabrina said, "I just don't understand what Ted sees in Victoire
anyway. He was lucky to have Petra. Victoire's a bit of a stuck-up powder
puff no matter how you look at her. No offense."
Rose waved a hand. "Oh, you don't have to apologize to us. We think
the same thing most of the time."
James felt suddenly hot and angry. He stared out of the window,
confused at his own thoughts and emotions. Something about the fact that
Noah and Petra were suddenly dating needled him mercilessly. He'd always
liked Noah quite a lot, but now, all of a sudden, he wanted to go find the
older boy and push him down. The irony of it was that he knew where to
find Noah: he was sitting across from Petra at this very moment, just down
the street in the ridiculously pink and fluffy Madam Puddifoot's Tea Shop.
Worse, James now knew for certain that Noah wasn't the main problem.
Just as Rose had said, Petra was obviously still in love with Ted Lupin,

despite the fact that he had moved on to Victoire. The whole affair was
hopelessly complicated, and James was frustrated to realize that there was
absolutely nothing he could do about it.
Eventually, the conversation moved on to other topics. James, Rose,
Ralph, and Cameron said goodbye to the Gremlins and made their way out
to the street. The evening was cooling as the sun lowered, bringing a
restless wind through the village. Bits of newspaper and candy wrappers
skirled across the street as students began making the journey back to the
distant castle. The foursome began to make their way to the Shrieking
Shack, stopping only once along the way to pop into Weasleys' Wizard
Wheezes where they hoped to say hello to George and Ted.
"The old tunnel is open, eh?" George said, grinning over the front
counter. "That's excellent. Fred and I only tried that route once, since
everyone was afraid of the ghosts in the Shack. We didn't make it all the
way through, but we got far enough to leave some graffiti on the walls, as I
recall."
Rose nodded. "Yeah, I think I saw that. The drawing of Professor
Snape was particularly amusing."
"Oh, those were Fred's," George said, sighing. "He was a good one for
a quick caricature. He said it was all in the hook nose."
James asked, "So how's business been?"
"Oh, really excellent. Ever since we bought out Zonko's, we've been
rolling. They had a pretty loyal clientele, you know. I've even considered
making this Weasleys' flagship location instead of the shop at Diagon Alley,
but Ron says I shouldn't. He says the original location is still the best."
Rose looked around appreciatively. "I bet Ted loves working here. This
place is right up his alley."
"Yeah," George agreed. "It's good having him around. He's a hard
worker and he has some great ideas for some new products. Some of those

new Every Flavor Beans were his ideas, although even I drew the line at a
flavor called 'guanomole'. The blighter's been no use to me today, though.
These Hogsmeade weekends are like a family reunion for him. He's been in
and out all day doing who-knows-what."
There was a loud snap. James and Rose turned to see Cameron shaking
his finger violently, trying to dislodge something that had apparently
clamped onto the end of it.
"You snapped it, you bought it, my friend," George said jovially as he
came out from behind the counter. "Just kidding, really. Those are the finger
snapping Galleons. Always a laugh, those. Just lay one on the ground and
wait for any unsuspecting person to come across it."
"They sure look real," Cameron admitted as George pried the fake coin
off his finger. "Up until the point that it chomps on you, I mean. That's, er,
great. Thanks."
"If you like those, you'll love our Disapparating knickers bomb,"
George said, leading Cameron to another shelf. "Now with an expanded
effectiveness range of three meters! Great for parties."
As James browsed around, he peeked through the backroom curtain
and saw Ted sitting on a pile of crates. Lately, he had taken to using his
Metamorphmagus skills to change the appearance of his hair again, just as
he had when he'd been a baby. He had made it quite long today. It hung in
dark curtains, partially obscuring his face. James thought he looked a bit
like the long-departed Sirius Black.
"Hey, Ted," James said. "How's everything?"
Ted looked up, although James still couldn't see his face. "Oh. Hi,
James. It's all right."
"How's practicing for the National Quidditch Team coming?"
"Hmm?" Ted said. "Oh yeah. It's all right, I guess. I've been really busy

here at the shop, but other than that, yeah, it's fine."
"Ted," James said, slipping past the curtain, "er, what's going on?"
Ted's voice was strangely flat. "What do you mean?"
"I mean with Petra. I know it's none of my business, but…"
"What do you know about it?" Ted asked, a little sharply. "I know
Metzker's all in a tizzy about it, and the rest of the Gremlins are probably
talking it up, but I didn't think you'd be in on it too."
"In on what?" James asked, stopping just inside the backroom curtain.
"Look, I—"
"Whatever everyone is saying, it's all rubbish, James. You lot just need
to leave Petra alone, especially Metzker. And you can tell him I said so."
"Ted," James began, but he didn't quite know what else to say. Ted
stirred, climbing to his feet.
"I see you've got Dolohov with you. You're still chumming around
with him, eh?"
James looked hard at Ted. "You mean Ralph? Er, yeah. I guess. Why?"
"Oh, no reason, really. After all, it wasn't his people that killed your
parents."
James shook his head. "Ted, you… you can't blame Ralph for that. He
wasn't even born then. His father was just a kid when the battle happened."
Ted sighed wearily. "Don't tell me who I can and can't blame, James.
Look, I'm sorry I brought it up. I'm not in a very good mood tonight. Maybe
you and Rose and your friends should get back to the tunnel. It's getting
dark."

James nodded slowly. "Yeah, I guess you're right." He turned to go,
and then looked back. "See you later, Ted."
Ted waved. "See you around, James. Be careful."
By the time the quartet came out of Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, the
sun had dipped below the horizon, leaving a fierce orange and purple sky
behind it. Quickly, they made their way back toward the Shrieking Shack.
The protective fence around the property had long since fallen into
disrepair. James led the way through the same break in the fence they had
used earlier in the day. At the top of the hill, the ramshackle Shack stood in
black shadow, looming ominously.
"I was really hoping to get through this part before it got dark," Ralph
said fervently. "I can't even see the front door."
"It's right there," Rose said, lighting her wand and pointing it. "Just
like we left… it…"
Rose's voice trailed away as her wandlight played over the front of the
Shack. In spite of her words, the door didn't, in fact, look exactly as they'd
left it.
"I thought we pulled the door closed again," Cameron said curiously.
"Didn't we pull the—"
"Yes, Cam," James interrupted. "We sure didn't leave it like that."
The front door had been shoved open so far that the top hinge had
broken. It leaned awkwardly inside its frame. Beyond the entry was
impenetrable darkness.
"Does that look like someone was going in, or coming out?" Ralph
asked, trying to keep his voice even.
"What does that matter?" James asked.

"Well, for one thing, it tells us if we were followed or if we're walking
into a trap," Ralph answered reasonably.
Cameron asked, "Who'd try to trap us?"
"Nobody," Rose replied firmly. "Come on. It's probably just an animal
or something. Let's just get this over with."
She climbed onto the sagging porch and shone her wandlight into the
dark doorway. James clambered up next to her, his heart pounding.
Together they walked through the doorway with Ralph and Cameron
following close behind. The interior of the Shack had obviously been
disturbed. Some of the old furniture had been shoved aside, leaving scrapes
on the dusty floor. Worse, the stairway leading to the cellar looked all
wrong. The doorway was splintered and bowed, and the stairs beyond
seemed unusually steep.
"Wait," James said, grabbing Rose's arm. "This isn't right. Look down
there."
All four students hunkered and peered down the rickety staircase. By
the glow of Rose's wand they could clearly see that the room below was
virtually gone. Broken hunks of wall and sections of collapsed ceiling
choked the stairs, completely blocking them.
"How could that have happened just today?" Ralph asked breathlessly.
"I mean, it held up for twenty years and then decided to come crashing
down right after we came through?"
"Maybe we dislodged it somehow," Cameron reasoned.
James shook his head. "No, someone did this on purpose. Someone
knows we're here and is forcing us to go home by another route."
Cameron looked at James, smiling quizzically. "Why would anyone do
that?"

"Because they want to keep us out of the tunnel," Ralph answered in a
small voice. "Because the tunnel is part of Hogwarts."
"Come on," Rose said quickly. "If we hurry, we can catch up with
some of the other returning students."
Cameron looked alarmed. "But we'll get caught when we go back," he
exclaimed. "Professor McGonagall will see us coming back with the older
students! We'll get in trouble!"
"Let's seriously hope that's the worst that happens, Cameron," Ralph
said, following Rose back out of the decimated front door.

As quickly as they could, the four retraced their steps back along the
High Street. As they walked, James could occasionally see the spires and
turrets of Hogwarts castle, looking teasingly close against the darkening
sky. A cross street at the end of town seemed to angle in the right direction.
James led the troop down it, toward a stand of intervening forest.
"This doesn't look right, James," Ralph worried. "Isn't there a path that
leads straight through to the castle?"
James answered, "Yeah, we have to be getting near it. Watch between
the cottages."
"I wonder where everyone else is at," Cameron commented, looking
around at the narrow, deserted street. A dog barked nearby, and something

squeaked in the cooling wind. "Shouldn't there be other students heading
back along this route?"
"Hogsmeade weekend officially ends at dusk," Rose said quietly.
"They were already heading back by the time we stopped in to see George."
"What was that?" Ralph suddenly asked, spinning on his heels to look
behind him.
"What?" James whispered, his hair prickling.
Ralph's eyes darted over the street. "I… I thought I heard something
behind us."
Rose shook her head. "Get hold of yourselves, you two. It was
probably just a dog or something."
"I heard it too," Cameron said. "It came from over by that alley."
"Come on," Rose said firmly, pulling the bigger boys by the sleeves.
"You're spooking me out, and I was spooked enough already. Let's go!"
A few minutes later, the side street turned a sharp corner in the wrong
direction. James peeked between the cramped cottages, looking for some
sign of the castle.
"There's a little footpath," he said. "It winds back through some trees."
"Is it the path to the school?" Ralph asked.
"I don't know. But it's going in the right direction. Let's give it a go."
James led the troop between the cottages, past a tiny fenced garden,
and into the darkness of a stand of trees. The trail wound between bushes
and tall grass.
"Boy, this is just getting worse and worse," Ralph said quietly. "I

thought the whole point was for us to never be alone?"
"We're not alone," James said as he plodded further along the path.
"We have Cameron with us."
"And whatever was following us back there," Cameron added
cheerfully.
"Cameron!" Rose said warningly.
James was growing increasingly worried. The path was winding
deeper into a stretch of forest that separated Hogsmeade from the grounds
of Hogwarts. The trees blocked the light of the dusky sky, reducing the path
to a dim patchwork of shadows. Occasionally, James thought he heard the
sound of footsteps along the path behind them or further ahead of them, but
he determined not to call attention to them. He pulled out his wand and
illuminated it, holding it up as high as he could. The wandlight starkly lit
the nearby trees but only made the deeper depths seem all the darker by
comparison. No one spoke for several minutes as they walked. Finally,
thankfully, the path turned toward a thinner patch of trees. Through them,
James could see the indigo of the evening sky and the pale yellow face of
the full moon.
"Look," Rose said, pointing, "just beyond the edge of the trees, I think
that's the main gate! I can see the silhouette of the two boars!"
James squinted. He didn't have his glasses with him, so he couldn't
quite make out the distant shapes in the darkness.
"Yeah," Ralph said, "I see it. Wow, that's a sight. Come on!"
As the four students trotted forward, the trees parted overhead,
revealing the night sky and a scattering of stars. The moon shone its pale
yellow light all round. Sure enough, the ancient wall and the open gates
stood nearby; the two famous stone boars arched their backs at the sky,
baring their tusks. James breathed a great sigh of relief. In a few moments,
they would be safely within the grounds of Hogwarts again.

"Heh," Cameron laughed nervously. "See? I told you there would be a
great adventure! Wait until my dad hears about—"
Cameron's voice cut off as a noise of running feet approached swiftly.
The boy turned to look back, his face curious. Something large and dark
loomed out of the darkness, flying low over the ground.
Rose screamed, lunging backwards and reaching for her wand. Ralph
and James ducked as the figure hurtled over them. It landed on the path
between James and the gate, skidding on the dirt and turning back to face
them. A low, ferocious growl came from it and it began to advance.
"Stupefy!" Rose called, pointing her wand, but it was too dark to aim
properly. The red bolt struck the ground in front of the creature, lighting it
for an instant. James saw teeth bared along a narrow snout and bright,
terrible eyes.
"It's a wolf!" he called, scrambling backwards. The wolf responded to
his voice with a loud snarl. It lowered, coiling close to the ground, and then
pounced. James covered his face, shielding himself from the teeth and
claws, but instead of being mauled by the beast, he was knocked roughly
aside by it. Then, directly behind him, there came the noise of a violent
struggle and a scream of pain. It was Ralph. James scrambled to his feet,
reaching for his wand. With a gasp, he realized he'd dropped it when the
beast had attacked.
"Stun it, Rose!" James called.
"I can't!" Rose cried, pointing her wand wildly. "I can't tell them apart!
If I Stun Ralph, it'll kill him!"
The wolf rolled with Ralph as he wrestled it. It seemed to have his
wrist locked in its jaws. It shook its head violently, tearing at Ralph's arm.
Ralph screamed again, trying to kick the enormous beast off of him.
Without thinking, James lunged at the creature. He threw his arms

around the matted fur of its neck, pulling as hard as he could. Suddenly,
intensely, James' phantom scar burned. He squinted against it, willing
himself not to let go of the wolf's neck. The beast scrambled and thrashed,
still not releasing its grip on Ralph's arm. James could feel the muscles
pulsing beneath the wolf's fur, could smell the dank smell of its pelt.
Suddenly, it got a paw on James' chest. It dug in its claws and swiped,
tearing ragged strips in James' sweatshirt. He felt something hot and sticky
immediately soak into his shirt, but there was no pain. Instead, the pain in
his forehead throbbed and pulsed, distracting him. The wolf thrashed again,
knocking James loose. He scrambled after it, but it was too fast. The paw
swiped, barely missing James' face.
Suddenly, there was another voice calling out. "No, Ted! Stop! This
isn't the way! Let him go!"
James rolled and got to his knees. He looked around wildly, squinting
past the throb in his forehead, and saw a tall figure lunging onto the wolf.
James was too stunned to immediately recognize who it was. The
newcomer pulled at the wolf's ears, forcing it to release its grip on Ralph.
The beast flailed its head back and forth, snapping.
"Stop this, Ted!" the newcomer cried, and James finally recognized it
was Petra. "You don't know what you're doing! This isn't the way to fix
things! Not here, not now!"
The wolf lunged mightily, hurling Petra off, but it didn't renew its
attack on Ralph. The beast snarled at him, and then leapt away, snapping
and slavering its bloody jaws. It seemed confused, almost as if it were at
war with itself. Finally, it threw back its head and howled, long and loud. It
chilled James' blood because he could sense the humanity in that howl,
almost as if Ted's voice was buried under it, crying out in anguish and
despair.
Petra climbed to her feet and slowly approached the great wolf.
Remarkably, she knelt next to it and stroked its fur. She spoke to it quietly,
soothingly.

"Ralph!" Rose rasped, dropping next to the big boy. "Are you all right?
How badly are you hurt?"
Ralph moaned and rolled over, struggling to his knees. James
scrambled over to him.
"I think my arm's broken," Ralph said with remarkable blandness. "It
feels all loose and hot."
James could see the mangled mess of Ralph's wrist. Blood soaked
through his shredded sleeve. "Ralph," James exclaimed, "you look awful!"
"You look pretty horrible, too," Ralph said. "Are all your guts still
inside?"
"I think so, er, I hope," James replied, looking down at his bloody
chest.
"Let me look at your wrist, Ralph," Petra suddenly said, kneeling next
to him. Ralph held it up. Petra gingerly peeled back the torn fabric of
Ralph's sleeve, revealing his forearm.
"Artemisae," she said, touching her wand to the cuts and punctures.
"That'll stop the bleeding until we can get you to Madam Curio."
"What are you doing here, Petra?" James asked as she turned to
examine his chest.
"I was walking back by myself," she answered. "I was just coming up
the path when I saw what was happening."
Rose was trembling visibly. "But… how did you know that the wolf
was… was…"
"It's a full moon, Rose. And Ted and I… we talked a lot. He told me about
his… condition."

Petra performed the same technique on James' scratches, which, she
assured him, looked a lot worse than they were. Finally, Rose and Petra
helped James and Ralph to their feet.
"Where'd the wolf go?" Ralph asked, shaking. "Is it gone?"
Petra nodded, looking back toward the forest. "He's gone."
Rose gasped and covered her mouth with her hands. "What about
Cameron?" she said through her fingers.
A cursory search found Cameron lying on his face in the grass, the bag
from the newsstand covering his head. He had a very large, muddy pawprint on his back but was otherwise completely unhurt.
"What happened?" he asked woozily as they dragged him upright. "I
think I fainted. Did I really faint? I missed the whole thing!"
James sighed, finally feeling some pain in his chest as the wounds
stiffened. "We'll tell you all about it later, Cam. Let's just get back to the
castle."
Limping and bloody, the group of five made their way through the
gate, heading toward the welcome glow of the castle windows. After a
minute, James trotted back, holding one hand over his chest. He looked
around for a few moments, cursing under his breath. Finally, he found his
wand in a tuft of grass. He tucked it into his jeans pocket and ran back,
yelling for the rest to wait up.
In the dark distance, somewhere between the gate and the village of
Hogsmeade, a wolf howled a long, sorrowful note.

16. UNEXPECTED CONFRONTATIONS
Just as Cameron had feared, Professor McGonagall was awaiting the
returning students. She sat in a portable chair with a cup of tea and her
tartan shawl, a long parchment across her lap. Petra climbed the portico
steps first. McGonagall looked up as Petra came into the light.
"You're rather late, Miss Morganstern. Yours is the last name on my
list. Perhaps you'd—" the professor's voice cut off as she saw the others
climbing slowly up the steps. Her eyes widened, immediately taking in
James' bloody shirt and Ralph's mangled wrist. She leapt up, spilling her
tea.
"Mr. Potter, Mr. Deedle, what in the world is the meaning…," she
began, and then stopped herself. "Miss Morganstern, please collect Madam

Curio from the Great Hall and ask her to meet us immediately in the
hospital wing."
"It was a—" Ralph began, holding his wrist in front of him.
"Some sort of wild animal," Petra interrupted. "It came out of the
woods while we were on our way back. It's all my fault, Professor. It
probably smelled the half corned beef sandwich I was carrying home from
Madam Puddifoot's. I should've known better."
"We'll determine who should've known what later, Miss Morganstern,"
McGonagall huffed, herding the troop toward the hospital wing. "For now,
please hurry! Madam Curio!"
Madam Curio met them shortly after their arrival. She clucked her
tongue as she gave James' chest a cursory look, and then turned to Ralph.
"Miss Morganstern, you did a very satisfactory job halting the bleeding
on these boys," she proclaimed in a businesslike manner. "Would you be so
kind as to assist me? By the time my nurses arrive, we'll probably be
finished. Hand me that bottle of Arthroset and that box of Dermamend
bandages, please. And perhaps you'd be so kind as to clean Mr. Potter's
wounds?"
Petra scrubbed her hands and filled a basin. James hissed through his
teeth as she began to gently sponge off his scratches.
"You mustn't tell anyone about Ted," Petra whispered as she worked.
"The world isn't a very forgiving place for werewolves, even halfwerewolves like Ted."
"I know," James answered quietly. "He told me about it last year. But
he wasn't transforming then. He was just getting really restless and hungry
around full moons."
Petra nodded. "He still doesn't transform very much. He's only got half
the blood of a werewolf. If he'd been a full werewolf, I'd never have been

able to talk him out of attacking Ralph. He only looks fully lycanthrope
because he's also a Metamorphmagus, like his mother."
"You mean he purposely transforms himself to look like a wolf?"
Petra shook her head, but more out of confusion than denial. "It's very
complicated. I don't think he really means to. Usually, he can control it, but
when a full moon comes, part of Ted really wants to change into a wolf
even though his father's blood isn't enough to force the physical change.
Since he's his mother's son though, he can transform himself. And the more
upset he is, the harder it is for him to keep it under control."
James sighed, and it hurt his chest. He was about to ask why Ted had
only attacked Ralph, but he knew the answer already. Ted had made it very
clear when James had talked to him earlier in the day. Ralph was a Dolohov,
even if he hadn't formally taken the name, and it was a Dolohov who'd
taken Ted's parents away from him. Quietly, James asked, "Do you think it
was Ted that destroyed the tunnel entrance in the Shrieking Shack?"
Petra shrugged slightly. "It might have been. He… he had reasons to
be upset today. I'm afraid I reminded him of his loss, although it wasn't
what I meant to do. I just needed to talk to him."
James studied Petra's face, but he could tell that she wasn't going to
say any more. Truthfully, James didn't want to talk about it any further. His
forehead still throbbed worryingly, and what he wanted to do most of all
was simply rest.
Madam Curio insisted that James and Ralph spend the night in the
hospital wing, sleeping on the wonderfully charmed beds. Neither boy
minded, since it meant breakfast in bed the next morning. It also postponed
the inevitable meeting with the Headmaster, whereupon they would have to
explain their unsanctioned misadventure. James' chest had been bandaged
rather densely, but he could tell that the werewolf's slashes were already
healing swiftly. They itched as the skin knitted together. Living in the
wizarding world was a remarkable thing, he thought. Nevertheless, despite
all their magic and potions, he reminded himself that Grandfather Weasley

had still died of a stupid heart attack. James would have gladly dealt with
weeks of slow, painful healing if the alchemists who'd invented Dermamend
Skin-Knitting Bandages had spent their time instead working on a magical
cure for heart attacks.
"What are we going to tell Merlin?" Ralph whispered to James the next
morning as they ate their breakfasts in bed.
James shook his head nervously. "The truth, I suppose. Except for the
part about Ted. Like Petra said, as far as anyone else is concerned, we were
attacked by some wild animal. That's all."
Ralph shuddered. "I thought he was going to rip me to bits."
"It sure looked like he wanted to," James admitted. "Ralph, Ted wasn't
in his right mind. He was all wolfed out, half because of his dad's werewolf
blood and half because of his mum's Metamorphmagus blood. I mean, like
Petra said, he was still Ted inside, but without any of Ted's self-restraint. He
wasn't really trying to kill you. He was trying to avenge his parents. You're
just the closest thing he has to somebody to blame."
"I know," Ralph answered sadly. "Really, I don't blame him. But still,
does this mean I'm going to turn werewolf too?"
"No," James replied. "Ted isn't werewolf enough to fully transform
without using his Metamorphmagus abilities. He definitely isn't werewolf
enough to spawn any more werewolves. You got off lucky."
Ralph nodded thoughtfully. "Still, I think it'll be pretty awkward next
time I see him. How do you get along with someone after they nearly ripped
your arm off with their teeth?"
"Deal with that when the time comes, Ralph. We've got enough to
manage at the moment."
Late that morning, Madam Curio pronounced James and Ralph fit to
go back to their dorms, although they'd have to return the next day to have

their bandages removed. No sooner had they left the hospital wing than they
met Rose.
"We've been summoned to the Headmaster's office," she said, her face
very pale. "Right now. Come on."
Silently, the three made their way through the castle, finally
approaching the gargoyle that guarded the spiral staircase.
"Password," the gargoyle said, as if bored.
"Er, they just changed it," Rose said to James and Ralph. "Professor
Heretofore told me the new one when she told me we were summoned. Let
me think. Oh yes… Caerth Hwynwerth."
"Blimey," Ralph said as the three climbed onto the rising staircase. "I'd
never remember that."
Rose nodded gravely. "I guess that's the point."
"Maybe it won't even be Merlin," James whispered hopefully. "He's
been travelling all the time lately. Professor McGonagall's been filling in for
him."
Rose just looked at James, a little hopelessly. She rapped on the huge
wooden door leading into the Headmaster's office.
"Enter," a deep, rumbling voice answered. James and Ralph both
gulped simultaneously. The door swung ponderously open, creaking
slightly. James tensed, waiting for his phantom scar to burn, but it didn't, or
at least not much. He resisted the urge to touch it. Merlin was seated at his
massive desk. In front of him, sitting in the only chair, James was surprised
to see Damien Damascus. Damien looked chastened and meek, but James
couldn't be sure whether the look was sincere or an act.
"Mr. Damascus and I have been discussing yesterday's unscheduled
departure," Merlin said, leaning back in his chair and lacing his fingers

together. "He has been so kind as to come to me of his own accord,
claiming some degree of responsibility for your actions. Is it possible that
you three will corroborate his tale?"
"Er…," James began, looking from Merlin to Damien. "Er… yes?"
Merlin nodded slowly. "Do go on, then. Tell me your version of the
story, Mr. Potter."
Merlin's eyes bored into James, and yet James couldn't recognize any
specific malice in that gaze. James cleared his throat, glancing at Ralph and
Rose for support. Rose nodded at him, eyes wide. James said, "Well, we
just wanted to see Hogsmeade, sir. We knew we weren't of age to go on
Hogsmeade weekends, but we didn't think… I mean…"
"You didn't think that the rules applied to you," Merlin nodded. "That
is the crux of your story, is it not, Mr. Potter?"
James swallowed past a large lump in his throat. His face heated. "I…
I guess so, sir."
"Tell me," Merlin said, sitting forward again in his chair, "how did you
manage to find your way to the village unseen?"
James glanced at Damien again. Damien's face remained a mask of
chaste repentance. Suddenly, James remembered what Damien's role in the
Gremlins was; they had discussed it at the very beginning of term. Damien
was the official Gremlins scapegoat. Up until now, James had not quite
known what that meant. "Er… Damien showed us a way?" James said, still
looking at Damien and frowning nervously. "He found the secret passage…
er, right?"
Merlin sighed. "Yes, that is the way Mr. Damascus tells it."
Damien nodded miserably. "I teased them, sir. I told them they didn't
have the guts to sneak into the village next Hogsmeade weekend. I simply
wasn't thinking. I should've known they'd get caught. I should've known

they'd get attacked by a wild, ferocious beast on the way back, all because
of an innocent half corned beef sandwich! I am just sick with guilt!"
Damien crumpled, burying his face in his hands and sobbing with woe.
Merlin simply stared at Damien, his piercing eyes mild, his brow
raised slightly. After a long moment, he returned his gaze to James.
"Regardless of Mr. Damascus' purported challenges, the three of you
should have known better. I am not inclined to go lightly on you. This sort
of careless behavior cannot be tolerated in an institution that prides itself on
order."
Merlin looked down at his desk again, ticking his quill over some
notes. James glanced at Ralph and Rose. They would certainly get points
deducted from their houses, and while that was bad enough, it wasn't the
end of the world. Damien looked at James sideways, still managing to look
stricken with guilt.
Without looking up, Merlin said, "Your punishment shall be the
dissolution of your so-called Defence Club, effective immediately."
James boggled at Merlin, his mouth dropping open. Rose spoke first.
"You can't do that, sir!" she exclaimed. "That would be punishing all
the members of the club as much as us!"
"As I recall, you convinced a first-year member of that club to
accompany you in yesterday's debauchery," Merlin said, glancing up
sharply.
"Cameron?" Ralph said. "He followed us! We tried to get rid of him!"
"In either case, this does not incline me to trust your leadership
abilities for such a club."
James frowned angrily. "But it isn't fair to the rest of the club!"

"'Fair' is a strange concept which this age seems to prize above all
else," Merlin said, sighing. "In the age that I come from, a 'fair' was a place
where farm animals and servants were bought and sold. You may choose to
remember what the word means to me before bringing it up again."
"But sir—" Rose began. Merlin silenced her with a raised hand.
"That is my final word," he said flatly. "You may go. That includes
you, Mr. Damascus."
Rose turned away, and Ralph followed. Damien got up. He looked as if
he wanted to say something to the Headmaster but then thought better of it.
As he turned to leave, he gave James a warning look. Merlin watched
James, his face inscrutable. Finally, James also turned around and walked
toward the door.
"James," a mild voice said from the rows of old headmasters'
paintings. James glanced up. The portrait of Severus Snape was empty, but
the portrait of Albus Dumbledore had raised its head. Dumbledore looked at
James through his half-moon spectacles, smiling a small, curious smile.
"Wait just a moment, if you would. I believe the Headmaster wishes to
speak to you alone."
The office door thunked as it closed, making James jump. He turned
around and Merlin was right behind him, towering over him.
"I've been meaning to have a little chat with you, my boy," the big man
said, his voice low and dreadful. "Your friends may believe they know what
is happening, but I suspect you agree that the main question exists between
you… and me."
James didn't know what to say. He stared up at Merlin's impassive
face, his heart suddenly hammering. Merlin went on.
"As you no doubt suspect, very little happens within these halls that I
do not know about. You've been through the Amsera Certh, and I can only

imagine that you've learned much about me and what has happened in this
castle. Thus, you have me at a disadvantage, for while I have been to and
fro throughout this new age, learning much and loving little, the one thing I
cannot be sure of is your convictions and intent. You worry me, my boy,
and that is no doubt. Not because I fear you, but because I fear what you
might choose to believe. There is only one thing that keeps me from
stopping you in your tracks this very instant. Would you like to know what
it is?"
The question was rhetorical. James didn't bother to answer.
"It is this," Merlin rumbled, raising his hand and pointing directly at
James' forehead. "Yes," he nodded, "I can see it. I know not from whence it
comes, nor by what art it has been conjured. Perhaps it means you are my
ally, strange as it may seem. But perhaps again, it marks you as my foe. It is
that question and that question alone that stands between us, James Potter.
That question, resting like a lever on the fulcrum of one very small stone.
And do you know what that stone is?"
James didn't. He started to shake his head, but then he remembered
something. Perhaps it came to him directly from the Headmaster's eyes,
since it was a memory of another time he and Merlin had stood like this,
talking in private. It had been in the cave of Merlin's cache, after the test of
the golden cord.
"Trust," James said, his voice very dry. It sounded right. Merlin
nodded slowly, meaningfully.
"I will be watching, James Potter. As you know, I have eyes
everywhere…" He looked aside, indicating the empty portrait of Severus
Snape. "Trust only lasts until the final evidence is revealed. I will be
watching… for that evidence."
There was a soft click and the Headmaster's door creaked open. James
glanced at it. He was dismissed, but he couldn't quite bring himself to go
yet. He looked up at the Headmaster, steeling himself. "Is it true that you
can't harm anyone inside these walls?"

Merlin smiled very thinly at James. He turned back toward his desk,
gesturing toward the Amsera Certh, which sat in its frame, covered in the
thick black cloth. "Ask Lord Hadyn," he said, crossing the room. Then, in a
lower voice, he added, "Or Lady Judith."
The black cloth suddenly flew off the Mirror, revealing the swirling
mercury smoke. The smoke began to clear as the pages in the Focusing
Book suddenly riffled of their own accord, flipping past as if in a hard wind.
"Run, James," the portrait of Dumbledore whispered harshly. "You do
not wish to see this. Run!"
James turned as quickly as he could and bolted out the door. It
slammed after him, shaking the hall. He stopped at the top of the spiral
steps, panting and frightened. He was completely confused by the things
Merlin had said. The Headmaster seemed to think James might be his
enemy, and yet he wasn't sure. It was certainly a terrible thing to know that
the only reason Merlin hadn't attacked him yet was because of the
protection of the castle and the mysterious phantom scar on his forehead.
Somehow, Merlin could see it, and he didn't know where it was coming
from. But if Merlin wasn't causing it somehow, then who was? And what
was it trying to tell him about the Headmaster?
"James?" Rose's voice called up from the bottom of the spiral stairs.
"What are you doing? What's taking you so long?"
James glanced back at the Headmaster's closed door. He didn't know
what it all meant, but he had a dreadful feeling that it was all going to
become clear very soon. That fact alone scared him more than anything.
Thinking that, he ran down the spiral steps to join his friends.

That night, James sat at a table in the corner of the common room and
took out a sheet of parchment. He dipped his quill, thought for a moment,
and then began writing.
Dear Dad,
How's everything going at home? I hope Grandma is
having fun staying in my room.
Make sure she doesn't look under the bed because that's
where me and Al hid all those Dogerpillars we found, and I don't
think we ever got them all cleared out. Also, tell her not to look on
the top shelf of the closet. In fact, if she stayed out of the closet
altogether, everybody will probably be a lot happier.
I heard the news about the Dementor attacks going on all
over London, and I heard that the Ministry is starting a new
Auror department to go put a stop to it. Look, it's too much to
explain in a letter, but that job is going to be a lot more dangerous
than it seems. Something really evil called the Gatekeeper came
back with Merlin, and we think it's using the Dementors to feed
on people's fear. If you want to know more about it, ask Cousin
Lucy. She looked it up at the wizarding library for us, so she
knows loads about it. You just need to watch out for it because it's
really, really powerful—way more powerful than any regular old
Dementor—and it's looking for a human host to give it all the
power it needs to stay here for good and ruin everything.
That reminds me—Dad, do you remember a ring that
Dumbledore gave you? It might not have been a ring, but a stone.

I think I've heard you talk about it, from back when you had to go
into the woods to fight V. Somebody here says he read about it in
those books that came out about your life, and he says it was
called the Resurrection Stone. Anyway, I need to ask—what
happened to that stone? Rose and Ralph and me think that it
might be really important for getting rid of the Gatekeeper. I
promise not to tell anyone. Except Rose and Ralph. And maybe
Zane if we think he can help. And maybe Cameron Creevey since
he's the one that remembered about it in those books. But nobody
else. OK?
Thanks, Dad,
Love, James.
P.S. Have you and Mum found the M. Map and the I. Cloak and
my voodoo doll yet?
James sealed the letter into an envelope and began to stuff it into his
satchel. He stopped, suddenly wondering if he had time to send the letter
tonight instead of tomorrow. He checked the clock and saw that it was only
nine. He had time to get to the Owlery, and he knew he'd sleep better
knowing that the letter was already on Nobby's leg, winging along to his
parents' house. Rose had already gone up to bed, and Ralph was down in
the Slytherin rooms, so James decided to go by himself. He stuffed the
letter into his pocket and climbed through the portrait hole.
By the time James ascended the narrow steps into the Owlery, the
moon had risen to a huge, full orb. Its frosty face illuminated the interior of
the Owlery with silvery light, bright enough to see by. James found Nobby
and paused to stroke him.
"They feed you all right up here?" James asked.
Nobby clicked his beak and ruffled his feathers luxuriously. James
noticed that the corners of the Owlery floor were cluttered with the bones of
rodents.

"I guess you get along just fine up here, don't you?" James said,
smiling. The great bird seemed to agree. He ducked his head under James'
stroking hand, preening. After a minute, James took the letter out of his
pocket. He attached it carefully to Nobby's leg with a bit of string.
"This is really important, Nobby," James explained. "Get it to Dad as
soon as possible, all right? And wait to see if he writes anything in return. If
he does, bring it with you when you come back."
Nobby clicked his beak again and shuffled on the perch, obviously
anxious to depart. As soon as James released his leg, Nobby spread his
wings. He balanced for a moment, and then thrust upwards, flapping toward
the Owlery's huge windows. He circled, disturbing some of the other owls
on their perches, and then, with a flick of his rudderlike tail, he was gone.
James felt much better. He retraced his steps out of the Owlery and
down the narrow stairway. When he got to the corridor below, he stopped.
The halls had been almost entirely empty during his walk to the Owlery, but
now someone was standing in the dark corridor, looking out one of the tall
windows. James thought this was particularly odd since the Owlery was
nowhere near any of the common rooms. The figure was in silhouette
against the low full moon outside the window. James could only tell that the
figure was a girl with long hair. He had a strange, fleeting hope that it was
Petra, but he didn't think so. James made his way along the hall and the girl
didn't move as he approached. He had almost passed her when she spoke
without turning around.
"A little late to be sending post," she mused. "Must be rather
important, James."
James' blood cooled. It was Tabitha Corsica. "What's it to you?" he
asked, not breaking his stride. He meant to leave her with that, but her next
words brought him to a halt.
"The Gatekeeper won't be stopped, you know," she said idly, half

turning to look at James over her shoulder. "No matter who you tell about it.
It's too late for that."
James was stunned. His mind was racing so that he didn't know what
to say. How could Tabitha know about the Gatekeeper? Neither James,
Rose, nor Ralph had told anyone about it. But even as he wondered, he
realized that the answer was all too obvious. Tabitha knew about the
Gatekeeper because she was part of the plot to control it, to unleash in on
the earth. There was simply no other explanation.
Tabitha turned back toward the moon. She leaned comfortably on the
stone windowsill. "You believe you grasp what is happening, don't you?
You've convinced yourself that you understand the full implications of the
Curse of the Gatekeeper." She laughed lightly. "That's what I love about you
Potters. You all see the world in the plainest terms. You somehow manage
to miss the essential details and the big picture. Never has it been more
obvious than now."
James started to speak, but his voice was hoarse and frightened. He
cleared his throat and tried again. "Are you here to stop me?"
"Stop you?" Tabitha replied, still not turning around. "Stop you from
what? Didn't you hear me? It's too late to stop anything. The descent of the
Gatekeeper is accomplished. Its day is at hand. There is only one more task
to complete, and that task is very nearly done. I'm only here now to gloat,
James. I wanted to see your face when you found out that your world was
about to end." Finally, Tabitha turned fully around. James took an
involuntary step backwards. He'd never seen Tabitha this way. Her hair was
lank and her face looked very pale, even gaunt. Her eyes were tinged with
red, avid and hungry.
"Yes," she breathed, leaning slightly forward. "That's the expression I
was hoping for. You see it now, don't you? The Curse of the Gatekeeper is
finally at hand, but it isn't a curse for everyone. It will end your world, and
the blighted world of the Muggles, but it will not be a curse to those who've
remained pure of heart. It will be a blessing to us. Salazar Slytherin knew it
in his time, when he orchestrated this day. The descent of the Gatekeeper

hearkens the age of pureblood perfection! No longer will we be shackled by
the laws of weak governments, no more will we live in the shadows of the
Muggle drones, hiding like beetles under a rock. For us, the Gatekeeper is a
harbinger of supremacy!"
James took another step backwards, wilting in the ferocity of that mad
gaze. "You… you can't really believe that," he stammered. "No one controls
the Gatekeeper. It'll bring doom to everyone and everything. Even its
human host will be killed by it in the end."
Tabitha smiled slowly. "How curious that you believe no one can
control the Gatekeeper. And yet I know why you have clung to that belief.
You persist in trusting Merlinus Ambrosius, whose very presence in this age
is your doing. You convince yourself that, in the end, he will not side with
us. This offers you a shred of hope, doesn't it?"
James nodded. He hadn't known it until this moment, but Tabitha was
right. In the deepest part of James' heart, he did trust Merlin. He didn't
know exactly why, but he did. Despite his doubts and fears and despite all
the evidence to the contrary, James simply didn't believe that Merlin would
use the Beacon Stone for evil. He believed that Merlin would use it instead
to battle the Gatekeeper, even if it was a losing battle.
Tabitha's smile grew indulgent. "Cherish that hope as long as you can,
James," she said, almost whispering. "And when the Gatekeeper is ours,
when Merlin hands the stone over and joins us, I hope I can be there to see
the light of that hope die in your eyes. I really do."
James finally began to feel some anger. He drew himself to his full
height and took a step forward. "You're lying," he said firmly. "You're just
trying to scare me. You know that your plans can still be stopped. It isn't too
late, no matter what you say. You can tell whoever put you up to this that
you've given me your message, for all the good it did. But I'm not going to
back down. We'll find the other half of the Beacon Stone."
Tabitha's smile vanished as James said this. She looked at him with
something like open bewilderment. And then, slowly, the smile resurfaced,

dawning on her face like a sunrise. "The other half of the Beacon Stone?"
she said in an amused voice. "You don't yet realize it, do you? No wonder
you've been so full of vim and vigor! My dear James, we already have the
'other half' of the Beacon Stone! It's been in our possession for years! We
used our arts to seek it out. It wasn't particularly difficult, you know. Your
father simply dropped it in the Forbidden Forest. He left it for anyone to
find if they had an inkling of where to look. I was there on the very night
that it was pulled from the earth!" Tabitha laughed again, lightly, and yet
James heard a tinkling madness in it. She stopped, inhaled, and shook her
head. "How dreadfully unfortunate for you, James. But, oh! That's what that
letter to your father was about, wasn't it? You were asking him where the
stone had gone! Oh, I really am so sorry that you've wasted your time. But
now you do see how precarious your situation is, don't you? It really is only
a matter of Merlinus' rather famously fickle loyalties. How deliciously
exciting this must be for you!"
James' anger hadn't abated in the face of this revelation. If anything, it
had intensified. "I don't believe you, Corsica. You'll say anything just to
keep me from working against you. It won't work! Even if your people do
have half of the Beacon Stone, Merlin won't join you. I won't let him! So
tell your cronies that I got your message, and that I told the lot of you to
stuff it where the Nargles don't bite."
With that, James turned on his heel and began to stalk away. After a
few steps, he stopped and looked back. "And I'll tell you one more thing,
and this is just for you, Corsica: I know you think you've got my brother
wrapped around your little finger, but if you get him involved in this in any
way, I will personally come for you. Don't think I don't mean that."
"Albus?" Tabitha said, the smile now gone from her face. "I think he's
big enough to make his own decisions, don't you?"
James narrowed his eyes and nodded slowly. "You bet he is."
As James turned again and stalked off, Tabitha called after him, her
voice echoing in the corridor, "Cherish that hope, James… Cherish it for as
long as you can…"

James was shaking by the time he climbed back through the portrait
hole. The encounter with Tabitha had completely unnerved him despite his
brave words. It was all too overwhelming. Was it true that James' dad had
simply dropped the Resurrection Stone in the Forest before his
confrontation with Voldemort? If Tabitha and her secret cohorts did indeed
have half of the Beacon Stone already, what hope was there? James now
realized that, in spite of everything, he did trust Merlin not to side with evil.
But was it that Merlin was trustworthy, or that James simply couldn't face
the possibility that the famous sorcerer might betray them? With a shudder,
he remembered that Judith, the Lady of the Lake, had also trusted Merlin,
right up until the point that he'd killed her. Strangely, in the face of all of
this, all James wanted to do was go to bed and sleep.
He climbed to his dormitory, stripped off his clothes, and fell into bed.
The moon shone in through the small window across the room, needling at
his eyes. James rolled over, pulling his pillow over his face. It wasn't until
he was almost asleep, just as all of his racing thoughts were finally quieting,
that one final, strangely worrying question popped into his head. James sat
up, staring out the window at that bright, silvery moon while the question
repeated itself in his mind: how had Tabitha Corsica known that he was at
the Owlery?
James stared hard at the moon, but it offered no answers. He flopped
back onto his pillow. Finally, eventually, he fell asleep.

17. THE BLOODLINE
The next week seemed to shuttle past with the inertia of a freight train. As
the end of the term loomed, the library grew busier and busier. The older
students moved about in a sort of harried fog, studying and drilling each
other on topics James could barely understand. Even the Gremlins seemed
tense. Noah, Sabrina, Damien, and Petra sat on the couch before the
fireplace, surrounded by loose parchments, books, and candy wrappers.
James waved at them as he passed, heading down to the library.
"Hey, Damien," he said, "thanks for helping out in the Headmaster's
office the other day."

"Just doing my job," Damien muttered, his nose buried in a huge book
of star charts.
On the way down to the library, James considered the events of the
previous days. It was all moving so fast that it was becoming hard to keep
track of. On Monday, James had informed Scorpius that he, Ralph, and
Rose had been ordered to shut down the Defence Club as punishment for
sneaking into Hogsmeade. Scorpius had been strangely unperturbed.
"A pity that you won't be able to keep attending," he'd said blithely,
looking up over his glasses from the book he'd been studying.
"I don't think you understand," James said, sitting down. "The club's
been disbanded. Merlin ordered it."
Scorpius looked down at his book again, turning a page. "I understand
it as well as I wish. As far as I'm concerned, you three have been banned
from leading the club. As co-teacher, I've no intention of shutting it down.
We'll rename it if necessary. We'll call it, oh, 'Scorpius' Army'."
"That's not funny," James said, shaking his head.
"No?" Scorpius replied. "Well, I sat up all night thinking of it. So,
drat."
James thought about it for a moment, and then asked quietly, "You'll
really keep teaching the club? Even though Merlin thinks it's been shut
down?"
"I'm sure I don't know what you mean," Scorpius answered. "If the
Headmaster has determined that the Defence Club should be dissolved, then
dissolved it will be. It's pure and simple coincidence that I, along with the
Specter of Silence and the Grey Lady, will be teaching an entirely new club
that happens to meet in the same place at the same time to study the same
topics. Surely, the Headmaster would recognize the difference."

James shook his head, smiling crookedly. "You really are a chip off the
old Slytherin block, aren't you? You're as twisted as a corkscrew!"
"Being twisted simply means being able to think around corners,"
Scorpius said, returning to his book. "My father taught me that."
James started to get up, then stopped and looked back at the pale boy.
"Cedric actually has you calling him the 'Specter of Silence'?"
Scorpius adjusted his glasses. "Who am I to argue with a ghost's
choice of name?"
Apparently, Scorpius had been as good as his word. On Thursday
evening, James, Rose, and Ralph had hovered in the halls near the
gymnasium. Sure enough, as they passed the pebbled glass doors, they
could hear the sounds of the club, practicing and drilling under Cedric's and
the Grey Lady's patient tutelage.
Preparations for The Triumvirate were also coming along swiftly.
Jason Smith's props crew was working double-time, having produced most
of the sets and prop elements, including a huge wind machine that worked
on treadle power. Gennifer Tellus was feverishly commanding her costume
shop, managing all the adjustments, alterations and last-minute costuming
details. Josephina Bartlett had recovered from her hex-induced vertigo
enough to climb onto the stage, although she couldn't approach the edge
without getting dizzy. Nevertheless, a contingent of Ravenclaw girls had
begun a rather snarky campaign to reinstate Josephina in the role of Astra.
To that end, they had painted a slew of signs and pinned petitions onto
several notice boards. The petitions hadn't accumulated many signatures,
however, and apart from Josephina's entourage, even the rest of the
Ravenclaws seemed to quietly support Petra in the role. For his own part,
James was impressed to realize that he had now learned almost all of his
lines. There had been a time when he hardly believed it was possible, but
the persistent rehearsals and late-night script readings had apparently paid
off. Noah and Petra seemed by turns affectionate and cold during rehearsals,
obviously reflecting the ongoing tumult of their relationship. James had still

not practiced his kissing scene with Petra, although they'd read through the
lines a dozen times. Professor Curry assured them that it need not be a real
kiss, but simply that they lean toward one another and touch cheeks. They'd
be in silhouette to the audience, and the lights would go out the moment the
kiss occurred, thus ending act three. To James' great dismay, however, he
was forced to obey Tabitha Corsica's direction whenever Professor Curry
wasn't around. Tabitha seemed to take perverse pleasure in forcing James to
recite his monologues over and over, constantly critiquing him and
belittling him in front of the other actors and crew. As James sweated in the
bright stage lights, rereading his rallying speech for the ninth time, his
dislike of Tabitha's pretty, smug face slowly intensified into a bright little
furnace of hatred.
The Quidditch season had finally ended with a smashing victory by
Hufflepuff over Gryffindor, resulting in days of merciless taunting by the
Hufflepuffs and surly retorts from the Gryffindors. To commemorate Albus'
first season as Slytherin Seeker, Tabitha had apparently given him the
broom he'd been flying all season, the same mysteriously hexed broom
which had caused James, Ralph, and Zane so much trouble during the
previous year. James could hardly believe that Tabitha would relinquish the
broom, but he also knew it would only serve to endear Albus all the more to
his Slytherin mates. Besides, if Tabitha was turning over something as
powerful as that broom, it would only be because she had something even
more powerful in her possession.
And then, this very morning, James had finally received a letter back
from his father. He'd read it over breakfast with both Ralph and Rose
peering closely over his shoulder.
Dear James,
Sorry about the late response, but I've been terribly busy
with this new Auror subdepartment. We've called in Kingsley to
give us a hand with it, and he's been a great help both in
organizing and preparing the field team for what they'll be up
against. Believe it or not, even K. Debellows has offered his
assistance. Turns out the Harriers faced a Dementor hive like this

once in Hungary. Viktor has his squad on standby, just in case, so
that's a relief.
Spot on about this Gatekeeper business. Our researchers at
the Ministry had already begun to piece together some details
about it. We have old Dung Fletcher in protective custody, and he
had an inkling that the people who orchestrated last year's
conspiracy were working toward something big like this. We're
quite confident that this whole 'Curse of the Gatekeeper' story is
just a massive scare tactic. The P.E. is still at work trying to
secretly destabilize the magical world, and what better way to do
it than to invent a grave new threat that the Ministry isn't able to
contain, eh? Don't worry. We've got the best people on it,
including me. Still, be sure that we won't be taking any chances,
all right? If there really is something behind this besides a load of
rogue Dementors, we'll be on the lookout for it.
Regarding the R. Stone, you can always ask me whatever you
want, James. Tell your friend Cameron I remember his uncle well
and that he's right about the stone. After I used it in the Forest
that night, I dropped it. I didn't need it anymore, and it was best
lost to the wizarding world forever. I'd guess it's still out there
somewhere, but even I could probably never find it again. I
strongly recommend that you not go looking for it. It'll only mean
trouble. Let it stay lost, all right?
Love,
Your father
P.S. No, still no sign of what's gone missing, but honestly, I
haven't had much time to look for them. Mum and Grandma say
hello. Grandma is staying in Albus' room, so you don't have
anything to worry about. See you in a few weeks!
James arrived in the dim library and wandered through the aisles and

shelves until he found Ralph and Rose, who were deep in conversation. He
plunked his satchel onto the table and sat down next to Rose.
"We spoke to Zane a little while ago," Ralph announced. "He popped
up right here in the library. Made Professor Heretofore ten shades of mad.
She refused to let us zap him with any spells to maintain his projection, but
he did give us a quick message."
James leaned in. "What was it?"
"Apparently he went to see Madame Delacroix in person," Rose said in
a low voice. "She's pretty dotty, but he got some useful information out of
her about what the wrong people might be able to do with your voodoo
doll."
"What?" James asked fervently. "Tell me!"
"Exactly bupkis," Ralph replied, curling his hand into the shape of a
zero.
"More or less," Rose added, glancing at Ralph. "Your dad was right,
James, when he said that voodoo wasn't like what the Muggle films show.
It's apparently mostly psychological. Pinning a voodoo doll in the heart
doesn't kill the subject, but it might make them sad or lonely."
"Or give them heartburn," Ralph quipped.
Rose rolled her eyes. "The point is no one can physically hurt you with
a voodoo doll. They may be able to make you believe you feel pain, or
certain emotions, but that's all."
James breathed a huge sigh. "Well, that's a big relief, I guess."
"Still," Ralph asked, "who do you think might have it?"
"Probably nobody," James answered. "It wasn't with the Cloak or the

map. It was just on my mum's bedside table. It's probably just lost at home
like my dad said."
"Maybe Tabitha has it!" Rose whispered conspiratorially. "Maybe she
doesn't know she can't hurt you with it! She's probably going mad
wondering why it isn't working!"
James shook his head. "That's daft, Rose. Tabitha wouldn't have any
way of getting it even if she knew about it. I never told anyone other than
you, Ralph, and Zane about it. Besides, Tabitha doesn't need a voodoo doll
to get at me. She could've fought me that night in the hall. Obviously she's
not meaning to attack us with magic or anything."
"At least not yet," Ralph muttered. Suddenly, a low whistle pierced the
air. It wasn't particularly loud, but it was noisy enough to disturb those
studying nearby. At the next table, Ashley Doone glanced up curiously,
looking for the source of the whistle.
"What's that?" Rose rasped. "Ralph, I think it's coming from your
bag!"
Ralph scrambled around in his seat, retrieving his bag. As soon as he
unzipped it, the noise grew louder.
"It's Trenton's Sneakoscope!" Ralph said, pulling the instrument out of
his bag. The noise was increasing both in pitch and volume.
"Mr. Deedle!" a voice called stridently. James turned in his seat and
saw Professor Heretofore approaching along the aisle, her sharp features
pinched into a scowl. "How many times must you insist on disrupting this
library?"
"Sorry," Ralph said, still fiddling with the Sneakoscope. "It must be
malfunctioning. I can't see how to turn it off!"
Professor Heretofore shook her head in disdain. She produced her

wand and flicked it deftly. The Sneakoscope emitted a sudden squawk and
fell silent.
"There," she said venomously. "It's off. Now please vacate yourselves
from the library, the three of you. If I see you in here again for the rest of
the day, there will be deducted House points, even if you are a member of
my house, Mr. Deedle. Now off with you."
"Stupid hunk of junk," Ralph muttered as they threaded toward the
door. He stuffed the Sneakoscope in his bag and shouldered it.
"It wasn't malfunctioning," a voice drawled. James glanced up as
Scorpius fell in line with them, walking out of the library. "It was doing
exactly what it was meant to do."
"Getting us kicked out of the library?" Ralph asked derisively.
Scorpius lowered his voice. "No, Deedle. Alerting you to the presence
of untrustworthy people."
James frowned at Scorpius. "What do you mean?"
"Not here," Scorpius said. "Follow me. I'll tell you what I can along
the way."
For several minutes, Scorpius led James, Ralph, and Rose through the
halls silently. Eventually, they came to an old part of the castle which was
rarely used. It smelled vaguely moldy. They passed no one else in the halls.
"I understand you had a rather illuminating conversation with 'Tabby',"
Scorpius finally said, glancing at James as he walked.
"How do you know about that?"
"I hear things," Scorpius replied vaguely. "Tabitha has somehow come
to believe that I am a Slytherin in disguise. She thinks that I detest the lot of
you and am therefore on their side."

"You had me fooled for awhile too, you know," James admitted. "My
bed still has the words 'Whiny Potter Git' on it."
"Where are we going, Scorpius?" Rose asked suspiciously. "It looks
like we're headed to the same place where we found the Mirror of Erised."
Scorpius nodded. "That's the spot, Weasley. Nothing gets past you."
"Scorpius," James said, narrowing his eyes, "if I didn't know any
better, I'd say you were nervous."
Scorpius stopped suddenly in the hall. He turned to face the other
three. "What I'm about to do, I do against my better judgment," he said in a
low, serious voice. "If my grandfather knew what I was about to show you,
he'd probably kill me, and that's not an exaggeration."
"What, Scorpius?" James asked, lowering his own voice to match the
pale boy's. "Do you know something?"
Scorpius looked away. "Remember when I told you that I hadn't seen
my grandfather for years? That he was in hiding, even from the rest of the
family?"
James and Rose nodded. James said, "It's not true? He's not in hiding?"
"Yes, he's in hiding. But it isn't true that I haven't seen him. I've seen
him plenty." Scorpius sighed and looked at James, Ralph, and Rose. "It
started two years ago. I hated the way my father had turned his back on his
upbringing. The reason he'd begun studying the founders was to find out the
truth about Salazar Slytherin. He'd been raised to believe that Slytherin was
a revolutionary thinker and a hero, but the more my father studied, the more
he began to believe that Slytherin had simply been a vicious, power-hungry
madman. When I was quite young, Father and Grandfather had a serious
row about it. They ended up wand to wand, although neither actually cast a
spell. It disgusted me that my father would deny his family heritage. Once
Grandfather disowned my father and moved into hiding, I determined to

join him and prove my loyalty. My mother helped me locate Grandfather
Lucius. He was quite happy to have me visit him in secret. He told me of
his plans. Yes, I know about the Gatekeeper and how it came to descend
into the world. I know that my grandfather believes he is carrying out the
final solution of Salazar Slytherin, finally bringing about a world of
pureblood perfection. But the more I listened to my grandfather, the more I
realized he'd gone completely mad. Both he and his partner, Gregor
Tyrranicus. Gregor was once wizarding royalty in Romania, but he lost
power and was kicked out by his own family. Both he and my Grandfather
Lucius will do anything to get that power back, and more. They truly mean
to be rulers of a new pureblood kingdom with the Gatekeeper as their
strong-arm."
"So they really do think they can control it," Rose breathed. "They are
mad!"
"They're mad, yes," Scorpius answered. "But who's to say they can't
control it? If they can possess both halves of the Beacon Stone, they may
indeed be able to protect themselves and their kingdom from the
Gatekeeper, although it will hate them all the more for it, and will destroy
them all the quicker if they get careless."
"So what is it you want to show us?" James asked, firming his jaw.
"What does your grandfather not want us to know?"
Scorpius seemed to be struggling with himself. His eyes were locked
on James', his lips pressed together. Finally, the boy nodded slightly. "Come
on," he said, and quickly turned.
They walked a little way further until they came to a large, heavy door.
Scorpius produced a tarnished brass key and turned it in the lock.
"My father gave me this key so I could help you come back through
the Mirror, Potter," Scorpius explained, pushing the heavy door open. "I
don't know how he came to possess it, but I suspect it had something to do
with one of the lesser known shops in the dark corners of Knockturn Alley.

Still, I doubt even my father knew what this key would also give me access
to."
"What's the big deal?" Ralph asked as they entered the cramped
storage room again. The Mirror of Erised showed their reflections in its
dusty surface. All around it were crates, trunks, and locked cabinets.
"Don't look too closely into the Mirror," Scorpius said, walking past it
and approaching one of the cabinets. "Without its Focusing Book, it'll just
show you distractions. The real surprise is over here."
"Whose stuff is all this?" Rose asked, looking around slowly. "I
thought it was just a bunch of stored junk when we were here last, but that
was before I knew how powerful the Mirror was and where it came from.
Nobody would just throw that in with a bunch of random crates."
Scorpius wrenched a lock loose from one the cabinets and swung the
door open. "All of this," he said, glancing back at Rose, "is the contents of
Albus Dumbledore's office while he was Headmaster. He'd willed most of it
to his brother, Aberforth, but when Aberforth died, he willed it right back to
the school. It's all been stored here ever since, hidden even from the new
headmasters according to Aberforth's instructions. Not the most trusting
fellow, was old Aberforth. We'd never have found it at all if we hadn't used
Ravenclaw's signal to locate the Mirror."
"Wow," James breathed in awe. "I bet my dad would love to know
about this place. He and Dumbledore were pretty close. Look! Is that
Fawkes the phoenix's perch? I bet it is!"
"This stuff is probably really valuable," Rose said, picking up a heavy
book from a table. "Most of these books are one-of-a-kind. They're handprinted and illustrated…"
"That's all well and good," Scorpius said, stepping aside and gesturing
at the open cabinet. "But this is why I brought you here."
Ralph and James peered into the cabinet, confused at the display of

dusty tools and ancient gadgets. A large bowl-shaped object on the top shelf
emitted a pale glow. Rose gasped, her eyes going wide.
"Is that the Pensieve?" she whispered. "Dumbledore's Pensieve?"
Scorpius nodded. "I came here once on my own, the night before
James' return. I sneaked out of the dorm and used Ravenclaw's signal to
find this room. I wanted to be sure it really existed. When I found it, I
explored a little and found the Pensieve. It contains many of Headmaster
Dumbledore's memories, and Severus Snape's as well, since Snape
apparently kept it in the Headmaster's office and used it after Dumbledore
died. I knew the memories would be rather faded now that Dumbledore and
Snape are both dead, but there was one set of memories in particular I was
curious about. Grandfather Lucius had already told me his side of the story,
but I wanted to see if Dumbledore's and Snape's version was any different.
It was—a little."
James asked in a low voice, "What's the memory about, Scorpius?"
Scorpius looked James in the eye again. He didn't blink as he
answered. "Something my grandfather and Gregor call 'the Bloodline'. It's
about who the Bloodline of Voldemort is, and how they came to be."
There was a long moment of perfect silence, and then, firmly, James
said, "I want to see."
Scorpius nodded. "I thought you might." He gestured at the gently
glowing bowl.
"How does it work?" Ralph asked, following reluctantly as James and
Rose stepped forward. "Does it, like, make a film or something? How does
it know what memory we want to see? Will it hurt?"
"Shut up, Ralph," James said, not unkindly. "Just hold my hand. You
too, Rose. I think we just have to look. That's all."
Slowly, carefully, James, Rose, and Ralph leaned over the stone bowl.

The surface of the liquid inside the Pensieve looked uncomfortably like the
swirling mercury smoke in Merlin's Magic Mirror except that it glowed
rather more. It lit the three student's faces. And then something began to
swim up out of the depths of the Pensieve. It seemed to come from far
deeper than the mere depth of the bowl. James held his breath as the light
intensified. The swirling increased, becoming larger as the liquid in the
bowl rose. It filled James' vision and then, swiftly and painlessly, it seemed
to grab him. At once, James, Rose, and Ralph fell into the Pensieve as if it
had grown to the size of a pool. It swallowed them completely, and for
better or worse, there was no turning back. They were a part of the faded
memories of Albus Dumbledore and Severus Snape.

Each of the three experienced it uniquely and separately. When James
landed in the middle of the first memory, neither Ralph nor Rose was
anywhere in sight. As Scorpius had said, the memories were slightly faded;
James felt more as if he was dreaming them than living them. As the world
of the memory resolved around him, he found himself standing in the
Headmaster's office, but not as he'd ever known it. It rippled and swam, like
a scene witnessed underwater, but then it began to solidify. Fawkes the
phoenix preened on his perch, proving to James that he was seeing the room
as it had looked during Dumbledore's term as Headmaster.
"We must be prepared for the eventuality, Severus," Dumbledore was
saying, not looking at Snape, who stood by the window, looking out at a
black sky. "It cannot be assumed that Voldemort will be too proud to resort
to such a tactic. If he comes to fear that his plans—and therefore his life—
are in jeopardy, we must assume he will prepare a successor of some kind."
"The Dark Lord is not given to preparations for failure, Headmaster,"

Snape said. "His vanity will not admit the possibility of defeat. The sheer
number of Horcruxes he has prepared are evidence of his assurance."
"I disagree," Dumbledore said, steepling his fingers as he sat at his
desk. James saw that one of the old headmaster's hands was rather horribly
blackened and sickly. "One Horcrux would be enough for a confident
villain. Voldemort's substantial collection of them proves quite the reverse.
He lives in terror of death, believing nothing but the most extreme measures
will ward it off. This is not the behavior of a man confident in his
immortality. If, in time, he fears that even this collection will fail him, he
will turn to even more desperate measures. You will know this when the
time comes, and if it does, your duty will be clear."
Snape turned away from the window and approached the desk. "It
pains me to admit it, but this task is very nearly beyond me, Headmaster.
You are far better equipped to manage it than am I."
Dumbledore nodded slowly and smiled. "I will not argue that, Severus,
but we both know it is unlikely that I should still be alive when the time
comes. The task falls to you by default. Nevertheless, I am quite confident
in your ability to do what is necessary. Despite what you believe of
yourself, you are rather uniquely qualified for this type of work…"
As Dumbledore said this, the memory slowly dissolved. The room
faded into obscurity and both Snape and Dumbledore vanished. An
indeterminate amount of time seemed to pass, and then James found
another memory solidifying around him. He was in a drawing room in a
grand house, although it was apparent that the house was quite old and its
best days were behind it. A large crystal chandelier lay shattered on the
floor like a corpse. Bits of broken crystal lay everywhere, sparkling in the
firelight.
"Potter," a high, silky voice said. James turned to see a horrible
cloaked figure standing in front of the hearth. It was like a man, but only
just. Beneath the cowl, the face was so pale as to be nearly translucent.
There was no nose, save for a pair of grotesquely flaring slits, and the red
eyes glowed with thin vertical pupils. James' knees went weak with fear as

the figure seemed to stare coldly at him, but then it turned its gaze away,
looking askance at a woman huddled at the end of a nearby sofa.
"I thought I was quite clear," the high, cold voice went on, and James
now recognized the figure for who it was. This was Voldemort himself, in
the flesh. "I was not to be disturbed for anything other than Harry Potter.
Bellatrix here assures me I was, indeed, rather specific about that
requirement. And yet she herself is the one responsible for interrupting my
work without any Harry Potter to present me upon my return."
Bellatrix sobbed and rolled off the sofa, throwing herself onto the floor
at Voldemort's feet. "He was here, my Lord! I tell you: he was my prisoner
when I summoned you; otherwise, I would never have dared! Lucius and
Narcissa can attest to the fact! But we were betrayed at the last minute—"
Bellatrix flung an arm toward a man James hadn't noticed yet. The man
stood in the shadows, his face deathly pale and blank. His hair was long and
white. "Tell him, Lucius!" Bellatrix implored. "Tell the Dark Lord that we
had Potter in our grasp!" When the man didn't respond, Bellatrix's face
contorted into desperate rage. "Then perhaps you should tell him how you
were bested by the boy Potter! Tell him, Lucius, how you were Stunned
unconscious mere moments after they burst upon us! Tell him!"
"Severus," Voldemort said, ignoring the woman's raving, sobbing
protests, "this unfortunate occasion has pressed me to consider an option
that I had hoped would be unnecessary."
James turned and saw Snape standing in front of the closed door of the
drawing room. He knew neither Snape nor Voldemort could see him;
nevertheless, he felt very uncomfortable standing between them as they
spoke. He moved into a nearby corner opposite the staring figure of Lucius
Malfoy. Snape merely stood and waited, looking unflinchingly at the awful,
snakelike face.
"I have summoned you from your post for the same reason I have
dismissed Narcissa, Greyback, and Lucius' son. No one else need know of
the duty I am placing upon you. Lucius himself will have his own role if he
chooses to accept it; I have every expectation that he will be eager to prove

his worth after recent events. But you, Severus, will perform a very
important duty in this arrangement."
"Whatever you wish, my Lord," Snape said evenly.
Voldemort went on, stepping away from the hearth. "As you know,
Severus, I have prepared Horcruxes, creating an unbroken chain of
immortality for my ascendance…"
As Voldemort slowly crossed the room, the broken chandelier rose
silently from the floor, allowing him to pass beneath it. The shattered bits of
crystal rose with it, turning and glinting in the air like water droplets.
"I am quite confident that these Horcruxes will serve me well;
however, in the extremely unlikely event that any of them should be
destroyed—"
"Never, my Lord!" Bellatrix cried, still groveling on the floor. "It is
impossible!"
"—I have prepared one final Horcrux," Voldemort went on, completely
ignoring Bellatrix's outburst. "It is rather unique. In fact, I am quite
confident that such a thing has never before been created."
Voldemort reached the center of the room and stopped. As the broken
chandelier hovered over him, he reached slowly into his cloak and produced
a long, narrow dagger. It was singularly ugly, made of silver with a jewelencrusted handle. The blade was tarnished to a dark glint, as if it had been
rubbed with soot.
"This dagger," Voldemort went on, turning it slowly in the firelight, "is
rather special to me. It has travelled with me long and served me on many
occasions. You may be interested to know that it once belonged to my
father. I took it as an inheritance from his dead hand. Thus, it is quite fitting
that this dagger, Severus, is the final and perhaps most important of my
Horcruxes. I am entrusting you to safeguard it within the protection of
Hogwarts until the time comes for its use."

"I will guard it with my life, my Lord," Snape said, inclining his head.
"I am honored to be entrusted with a task that will only add to your long
life."
"Alas, Severus," Voldemort said, pulling the dagger away, as if
reluctant to give it up. "This is not that sort of Horcrux. With this relic, I am
thinking only of future generations. Never let it be said that your Lord is not
gracious, for this Horcrux is not to be used for myself. As I have already
told you, this Horcrux is special. The part of my soul that it contains is shut
off from me forever. I cannot reclaim it. Thus, if, in the remarkable and
unimaginable event that every Horcrux but this were destroyed, this dagger
would not assure my survival."
Bellatrix gasped, but her eyes were huge and avid as she watched
Voldemort. Her gaze never left the dagger as it flitted and glinted in his pale
hand.
"The part of my soul locked within this dagger is a gift, my friends. It
is meant to be passed on. Lucius, my loyal servant, I have asked you to
remain because I know your desperate—and justifiable—desire to prove
yourself to me. It shall be your duty and honor to bestow the gift of the
dagger should that day ever come."
For the first time, Lucius Malfoy's face flickered with life. He blinked
at Voldemort, and then stumbled forward, not quite daring to touch his
master.
"Thank you, my Lord! It is my honor! I will not fail you!"
"I am certain of that, Lucius," Voldemort said smoothly, almost kindly.
"For if, for some reason, you fail the dagger, it will find you. I have bound it
to you, and your family. In the event that something unfortunate befalls
Headmaster Snape, you must retrieve the dagger from him. It will be
waiting for you. And in the event that the time passes for its use and you
have not fulfilled your role, it will seek you with its own intent. It will come
for you, and your family. I do trust that you understand."

"I do, my Lord," Lucius rasped, nodding. "I will perform whatever
duty you entrust to me. I vow my oath, Master!"
Voldemort nodded slowly. "Then your work begins this day, Lucius.
Find for me a worthy vessel. Find a family whose blood is pure but whose
loyalties will never be suspect. When the time comes, go to the woman in
that family who is with child. She must take the dagger unto herself, and by
her own hand, use the dagger to trace my symbol—the first initial of my
name—upon the swell of her unborn son, drawing it in her own blood. Let
her willingness infuse the life of the dagger into that mother's blood, taking
it to the child. Thus, this relic of my soul will be passed on. The boy will
carry my essence, made anew, ready to serve yet another generation. This is
your duty and your oath to me, Lucius. Swear it."
"I swear, my Lord!" Lucius rasped, falling to one knee.
"My Lord!" Bellatrix cried breathlessly, crawling to her knees and
imploring with one hand. "Choose me! Let me be the vessel of your gift to
future generations! I will raise the boy to be your perfect image! I am
willing! I am eager!"
"Yes, loyal Bellatrix," Voldemort said softly, not turning to her. Bits of
the floating crystal chandelier revolved in the air between them. "But your
loyalties are your most damning quality for this task. No one must guess in
whose womb my soul is to be reborn. Despite your greatest wish, this duty
cannot fall to you."
Bellatrix sobbed. "Then why have you kept me here, my Lord?" she
wailed desperately. "Why have you retained me only to see my greatest
desire plucked from my grasp?"
Voldemort sighed indulgently. "Your very question contains the
answer, dear Bellatrix. But do try to look on the bright side: I had
considered simply killing you for allowing Harry Potter to slip through your
grasp this night. Instead, I have merely killed your greatest dream."

"Nooooo!" Bellatrix shrieked, crumpling, and James' hair stood up.
He'd never heard a more despairing, hopeless cry.
Voldemort strode forward, smiling as if Bellatrix's wail of agony was
the sweetest music. He held the dagger out to Snape. As Snape took the
dagger, the suspended chandelier fell again. It crashed noisily to the floor
behind Voldemort, shattering like a bomb and drowning out the pitiful wail
of Bellatrix Lestrange.
The memory shattered as well.
There was a flash of swirling smoke, and then one more scene
materialized, swimming out of the mists like a fever dream. In this memory,
James saw Severus Snape again. He was pacing in the Headmaster's office,
which was his own office by this time.
"You seem to misunderstand, Albus," Snape said, speaking apparently
to the portrait of Dumbledore on the office wall. "It will not be a request.
Slughorn is the man responsible for the Dark Lord's ability to create
Horcruxes in the first place. He understands them better than I do. He owes
his service to the world to render this one useless."
"If only that were possible, Severus," the portrait of Dumbledore
replied. "But it is not. You may destroy the Horcrux, yes, but no one can
simply render it ineffective. Besides, I seem to recall that my instruction
was to simply poison the instrument, assuring it would kill both the mother
and the son it was meant to infiltrate."
"I cannot destroy the dagger while the Dark Lord still lives," Snape
replied. "He has bound it to Lucius Malfoy; he will know if it is
compromised, and my loyalties will be revealed."
"Then do as I instructed," Dumbledore insisted ardently. "Poison the
blade. It is within your abilities. There are any number of undetectable
poisons in this very room. Let the same instrument that carries that dark
soul also carry its doom."

"You might have been able to oversee the murder of the woman and
her child 'for the greater good', Albus, but I'm afraid that that ability has fled
me."
The portrait replied sadly. "Then you are a fool, Severus. The fruit of
this Horcrux will be on your head, not Horace Slughorn's."
Snape exhaled slowly, thinking. Finally, he glanced up. "Perhaps not,"
he said, as if to himself. "Perhaps there is another way."
"You are mistaken, Severus," Dumbledore replied. "My way is the
only responsible method. Otherwise, the boy will be born with the thread of
Voldemort himself beating in his veins."
Snape smiled slowly, coldly. "Perhaps not…," he said again.
"Surely you do not doubt that the dagger Horcrux will transmit the
remnant of Voldemort's soul?"
"I do not," Snape said, narrowing his eyes. "But perhaps it will not be
transmitted into a boy…"
Dumbledore sighed patiently. "This is not the time for conspiracies,
Severus."
"Indulge me," Snape replied slowly. "I am merely speculating. The
Dark Lord believes his soul will pass into a boy child. He is, in his heart,
that most arrogant of men, the sort that believes unquestioningly in the
superiority of his own gender. But what if Lucius' judgment were to become
impaired? What if his divinations were clouded? And as a result, what if the
final Horcrux were transmitted to a girl child?"
"That is not evidence that his soul would not dominate the child's
personality. She would still be influenced by his living essence."
"His quintessentially male essence," Snape muttered, hardly listening

to the portrait. "But how would that balance against the unexpected polarity
of her own female heart? How indeed…"
The portrait interrupted gently. "This is speculative foolishness, my
friend. I tell you: poison the dagger, or if you cannot, destroy it when the
proper time comes."
Snape looked up at the portrait, his eyes narrowed. He took the dagger
out of his robes and held it in his hands. It glinted darkly, just as ugly as
James had last seen it. Snape nodded.
"Yes," he agreed. "You're right, of course, Albus. When the time is
right. I cannot destroy the Horcrux yet; there is too much at stake for my
loyalties to be challenged. In the meantime, however, perhaps I will
experiment. Lucius Malfoy is bonded to the dagger. I may be able to use
that bond, pervert it, cause it to cloud his mind in the event that it does
survive. If Lucius succeeds in using the dagger, he will 'accidentally' use it
on an unborn girl child, thus foiling his master's wishes. Perhaps, just
perhaps, that would be enough to tip the balance. Otherwise, I will destroy
the Horcrux myself when the time is right."
"Forgive me, Severus," Dumbledore said, looking him evenly in the
eye, "but what if you do not live that long?"
"I have more than one reason to stay alive, Albus," Snape answered,
slipping the dagger back into his robes. "And as you well know, destroying
this mysterious object is not even the most important. Trust me, I shall be
careful."
On Snape's last word—careful—the memory rippled and faded.
Swirling, silvery smoke filled James' vision and he realized he was leaning
on something hard. It was uncomfortable, so he pushed back from it. As he
did, he drew his face away from the bowl of Dumbledore's Pensieve,
disoriented and dizzy. Ralph and Rose pulled away at the same moment.
They clutched at each other, struggling to stay upright.
"Did you see it?" Scorpius asked. James blinked, recovering his

balance. Scorpius was seated on a trunk in the corner of the storage room,
leaning languidly against the wall. "Did you see the dagger?"
"I did," James said. "Did you, Rose? And Ralph? I never saw either of
you in there."
Rose shook her head in dismay. "I saw it all. I saw Headmaster
Dumbledore and Professor Snape talking about the possibility of some sort
of successor. And then… I saw him. He Who Must Not Be Named. He was
awful."
"I didn't understand a lot of what he said, but I think I got the gist of
it," Ralph said, his face pale. "Those Horcrux things were supposed to keep
little bits of Voldemort's soul safe, so even if he got killed, he wouldn't
really die, right?"
"But the last Horcrux, the one embedded in his father's dagger, was
different," Rose nodded. "He couldn't reclaim that part again, no matter
what. It was meant to be passed on to a baby boy, carrying that bit of his
soul to a new life."
James furrowed his brow. "But why would someone so obsessed with
immortality waste a Horcrux on someone else's life?"
Ralph shrugged as if the answer was obvious. "It's still his life, but
hidden away. Who'd suspect it? As long as Voldemort was inside
Voldemort, all the good wizards in the world were gunning for him. He
knew that at least a few people, like your dad, James, would never stop until
every last Horcrux was destroyed and every shred of Voldemort was killed.
Hiding one last little bit of his soul in some anonymous new baby was sort
of genius. I mean, you saw the way Voldemort looked. It wasn't like he
could pass himself off unnoticed in a crowd, was it? But if he was part of
some little kid, who would ever think to look there? It's the perfect
disguise."
"But even so, he wouldn't be that little kid," Rose said, screwing her

face up in disgust. "That little bit of his soul would have to compete against
the whole soul of the person it was inside of."
"Or work with it," Scorpius said. "If it could find some weak place in
the host soul, it could exploit it, somehow bend it to Voldemort's will. Even
a tree can be bent if it's manipulated from the time it's a seedling. Voldemort
was very patient and wily. His essence would take the time to prune and
bend that new soul to his will."
"So what happened to the dagger?" Rose asked, seating herself on a
crate. "We have to assume that Professor Snape was killed before he got a
chance to destroy the Horcrux. But did he succeed in hexing the dagger to
fool your grandfather?"
"Not according to him," Scorpius said, smiling grimly. "My
grandfather knows nothing of the Pensieve or the memories it contains. He
tells the entire story rather differently, of course…"
Scorpius launched into the rest of the tale as he knew it.

It began, he explained, with the death of Severus Snape at the hand of
Voldemort, killed not because the Dark Lord suspected his divided
allegiance—Scorpius himself hadn't even known of that until he'd
discovered it in the Pensieve's stored memories—but because of the
mistaken notion that Snape must die for the Elder Wand, the unbeatable
instrument of magic, to belong fully to Voldemort. Snape had not expected
this, and thus had not destroyed the dagger Horcrux. Snape had, however,
been wily enough to hide the dagger extremely well, and to tell no one of its
location. Shortly thereafter, after Voldemort himself had been killed and his

Death Eaters scattered, Lucius Malfoy had gone after the dagger Horcrux,
fanatically intent on fulfilling his duties to his dead master. He crept into the
school shortly after the battle was over, while its defences were still very
weak. He used every art at his disposal to search for the dagger, but even
though he could sense its presence, he was utterly unable to find its hiding
place. It drove him mad with fear and rage, for he believed that if he failed,
the Dark Lord would exact his revenge even from beyond the grave.
While he was still searching Snape's Headmaster office, Lucius'
presence in the castle was detected. He fled, masked and cursing everyone
and everything in his way. As he escaped through the Forbidden Forest,
however, his heightened sensitivities detected a powerful magical object
lost there. He had no time to search for the object, but he determined to
return as soon as he could, for he believed he had quite by accident
stumbled upon the hiding place of the dagger Horcrux.
Time passed, however, and Lucius was unable to return to the Forest.
Most of his fellow Death Eaters were in hiding or had already been
captured and imprisoned. Lucius covered his tracks exceptionally well, but
lived in abject fear that he was being watched, that at any moment, he
would be found out and apprehended. His wife, Narcissa, had left him
shortly after the battle, and even his son, Draco, seemed to want little to do
with him, so Lucius went into hiding. He used the last of his money to buy
a rundown manor house on Cannery Row, protecting it with the best
secrecy methods he knew. There, alone, he began to plan his return to
Hogwarts castle to capture back the dagger.
Unfortunately, in the time that had passed, Hogwarts had been rebuilt
and fortified. There was no way for someone like Lucius to get inside the
grounds undetected. He needed partners and he needed money. Soon
enough, he encountered both in the form of Gregor Tyrannicus, a soft but
hate-filled refugee from his own royal wizarding family in Romania.
Gregor came with a small fortune in gold, granted to him by his father in an
effort to assure he left quietly and never returned. Gregor was instantly
enthralled by Lucius' tales of his dealings with the famous Dark Lord, and
vowed every bit of his treasure in support of the search for the mysterious
dagger Horcrux. In exchange, he merely asked for his own position of

power once the predicted pureblood kingdom was instated. Lucius
graciously accepted Gregor's support, even catering to the man's rather
obsessive infatuation with collecting relics from the Dark Lord's life.
Together, they assembled a small team of thieves and murderers,
training them for the death-defying siege of Hogwarts castle. In reality,
Lucius had no intention of accompanying the siege. He planned to use the
distraction created by the siege to sneak alone into the Forbidden Forest and
seek out the hidden dagger. Despite his and Gregor's training, in fact,
Lucius fully expected the siege team to be captured and sent to Azkaban.
Frankly, so long as they provided the short distraction Lucius needed, he
didn't care. They would be one small sacrifice in the ongoing work of the
fallen Dark Lord.
The siege never happened though. Less than a week before the planned
trip to Hogwarts castle, Lucius was alone in the manor house on Cannery
Row when one of the thieves he'd hired for the siege team, a young man
named Malcolm Baddock, stepped out of the shadows, a knife glittering in
his hand. The man grinned, ordering Lucius to turn over the gold hidden
somewhere in the house.
"Give it to me and maybe I'll only cut out your tongue, old man,"
Baddock had said.
Lucius had merely sighed. He closed the book he'd been reading and,
almost lazily, produced his wand. He fingered it idly, not really pointing it
at Baddock. "And what makes you believe, young man, that you won't be
killed where you stand by this very wand?"
Baddock's grin widened eagerly. "Because this here's my lucky knife,
it is," he said, displaying the darkly glinting blade. "It's not failed me yet.
It'll kill you three times before you hit the floor, you daft old coot. No
wand's ever been any good against it before, and yours won't be any
different. Now take me to the gold!"
Lucius narrowed his eyes. "Tell me, my friend," he said silkily, "does
your lucky knife know when a wizard is going to do this?"

In one deft movement, Lucius drew a short flick in the air. A thin red
line slashed across Baddock's throat and he flinched. Blood began to bead
from the cut. It dribbled down his throat and Baddock tried to look down at
it, frowning rather comically. His face contorted with rage and he reared,
hoisting the knife by its tip. As he opened his mouth to speak, however, his
head quietly toppled backwards off his shoulders, separating neatly along
the line of blood. It fell to the floor with a thunk.
Lucius was already pocketing his wand and wondering if he'd tell the
rest of the team what had happened to Baddock when something poked him
in the stomach. He looked down curiously and noticed the hilt of Baddock's
knife protruding from his robe. A moment later, he heard the thump of the
man's headless body striking the floor, dead. Truly, it had been a lucky knife
if Baddock had succeeded in finishing the throw he'd begun while his head
was still marginally attached.
Lucius reached for the knife to extract it from his stomach. It would
hurt, but it wouldn't be fatal, not to a wizard like Lucius. He stopped,
however, before his fingers touched the hilt. His eyes widened slowly as he
stared at it. The bit of hilt he could see protruding from the slowly
darkening folds of his robes was quite ugly and jewel-encrusted. Lucius
recognized it. Slowly, he wrapped his fingers around the silver hilt and
pulled the blade out of his gut. He barely felt it. He slid to his knees,
holding the dagger up, turning it, and watching the firelight play on its dark,
bloody blade. He began to laugh.
"Thank you, my Lord," he cried through his laughter. "Even dead, your
word rings true! Your final Horcrux has found me! Thank you! I will not
fail you! Your final task will be completed!"
Lucius laughed until he was hoarse, only remembering to heal the
wound in his stomach when he noticed the blood soaking the front of his
robes and pattering to the floor.
It had been over two years since the Battle of Hogwarts, since the
inconceivable death of the Dark Lord, but Lucius was finally able to

complete his duty. He told Gregor of the surprising appearance of the
dagger, and they dismissed the rest of the siege team with a small pay-off in
gold, warning them that if they told anyone what they knew, they would
experience the same fate as had befallen their mate, Baddock.
Lucius had long since determined the family that would play host to
the Dark Lord's 'gift'. They were pureblood, but lowly and poor. Lucius
spied on them and discovered that a young woman in the family had just
become pregnant. Her name was Lianna Agnellis and her husband had
recently been apprehended by the Ministry, suspected of low-level
involvement with Death Eaters in the last days of Voldemort's reign of
terror. Lucius had vaguely known the man, whose name was Wilfred. He
had indeed been a tool of the Death Eaters, although he himself barely
knew it. The young man had been extremely simple and gullible, and
Lucius himself had even used him as a messenger. It was Lucius who had
anonymously informed the Ministry of Wilfred's Death Eater connections,
knowing full well that the pathetic man would never be able to implicate
anyone by name; Lucius and his cohorts had been far too careful for that.
Wilfred was interrogated by the Wizengamot and eventually imprisoned in
Azkaban until such time as he might choose to divulge the names of his
purported accomplices.
After Wilfred's imprisonment, Lucius paid a visit to the young, quite
pregnant Lianna in her tiny flat. He ingratiated himself to her, claiming to
be a concerned friend and former associate of her incarcerated husband.
Lianna made tea for the two of them and they sat at her rickety kitchen
table. Lucius explained that he had both the money and the influence to see
to her husband's release if she was willing to perform a small service on
behalf of her husband's benefactors. Lianna was desperate: she fell upon
Lucius, sobbing and promising she'd do anything to get her Wilfred back
home. She asked what Lucius required of her, and he balked, suggesting
that she might think twice once he told her. He asked her to take a moment
to consider it while she refilled his tea.
As she returned to the stove, sniffing and wiping her eyes, Lucius
peered into Lianna's empty teacup, examining the shreds of tea leaves
scattered in the bottom. He had to be sure that the child in the woman's

womb was a boy child; surely, Lucius was wizard enough to ascertain
something as simple as that. He looked closely, squinting, but for some
reason, the tea leaves blurred before his eyes. He blinked, trying to focus, to
concentrate. In his robes, the Horcrux dagger seemed to vibrate. He felt it
reaching into his mind, calling him. It was distracting him. Lately, Lucius
never went anywhere without the dagger, but now he suddenly wished he'd
left it at the manor house. And then, just as Lianna was returning, settling
Lucius' own cup onto the table, the strew of sodden leaves became clear.
Lucius stared at them, even reaching for the woman's cup and tilting it to
the light. Yes, there it was. There was no question: the child in the woman's
belly was a boy child. The leaves proved it. Lucius sighed and smiled with
relief. The dagger in his robes went still again.
"What?" Lianna had said nervously, sitting back down. "What do you
see in the leaves? Am I going to get my Wilfred back?"
Lucius looked at her with gently shining eyes. He placed his hand on
hers comfortingly. "You will both be together very soon," he promised, "if
you do as we require. You may do it today, this very afternoon if you wish. I
will assist you. But you must do it with no hesitation and no questions. It
may shock you and even pain you, but only a little, and it will be over in
mere minutes. Can you do that, my dear Mrs. Agnellis?"
She nodded, nervously but with great resolution. "I knew that Wilfred's
bosses weren't the nicest of people, and that the things they made him do
were sometimes awful. I told him then what I'm telling you now, sir: I don't
want to know anything about it. I'll do what you want me to do, but don't
make me know any more about it than I have to. I just want my Wilfred
back, and after that, we'll take our leave of the lot of you, if you don't
mind."
Lucius nodded understandingly, patting her hand, but Lianna seemed
to have nothing more to say. The firm line of her mouth proved to Lucius
that the simple-minded woman had determined to do nearly anything to get
her husband back. She seemed to sense it would be rather horrid, but she
had a look on her face that Lucius knew well. It was the look that said I will
do whatever it takes, and then I will never speak of it or think of it again.

No one will know, and I will forget it myself. I am already forgetting it. My
mind is a blank. Please just get it over with.
When Lucius was quite confident that the look of resolve was fully
solidified on Lianna's face, he reached slowly into his robe, maintaining his
expression of kind concern. He produced a folded black cloth and laid it on
the table.
"Unwrap it, Mrs. Agnellis," he said quietly. "It is for you."
She reached and pulled the folded cloth to herself. She unwrapped it
and stared blankly down at the ugly silver dagger.
Lucius continued to smile at her. "It'll only hurt for a moment," he said
reassuringly. He began to explain to her what she must do.

"That's absolutely horrible," Rose said, her voice shaking. "Your
grandfather is a monster!"
Scorpius didn't respond. He looked away, glancing at the dusty Mirror
of Erised.
Ralph frowned. "So how did that Baddock bloke get the dagger
Horcrux?"
"He was a seventh-year student at Hogwarts right before the battle,"
Scorpius said. "My grandfather thinks the dagger somehow allowed
Baddock to find it, knowing it could use him to get to where it wanted to
be."

"Poor stupid git," Rose said, sighing.
"But if the dagger was with Baddock," James asked, "then what was
the magical object your grandfather sensed in the Forbidden Forest—" He
stopped suddenly as the answer came to him. Rose's eyes widened as she
also made the connection.
"The Resurrection Stone!" she breathed. "That's how they found it! He
got lucky enough to get near it when his senses were on high alert! He felt
the lost Resurrection Stone and mistook it for the hidden dagger!"
"He must have realized that as well," James nodded gravely. "He
probably didn't know what it was, but after Baddock tried to attack him, he
knew the thing in the Forest couldn't have been the dagger. Eventually, he
snuck out into the Forest to look for it. Bloody hell! He must have wet
himself when he found out it was Slytherin's half of the Beacon Stone!"
Scorpius shook his head. "I don't know anything about that part, but
yes, it would make sense."
"So," James asked, "that's the end of the story, then? This poor Lianna
woman scratched Voldemort's initial on her belly and gave birth to a baby
with part of Voldemort's soul in it?"
Scorpius nodded, still averting his eyes, "She was sick with what she'd
done, and of course, my grandfather did nothing to see that her husband was
released from Azkaban. Not that he really could even if he'd wanted to. All
of that had been lies. Eventually, as Wilfred wasn't released, Lianna became
convinced that she'd done something awful, and for no reason. She became
very sick and was taken to St. Mungo's hospital. That night, she died giving
birth to her baby."
Ralph's lips were pressed into a thin line. He shook his head and said,
"This is awful. I didn't need to know any of this."
Rose looked up, her eyes shining. "Whatever happened to the baby's

father?"
"Wilfred stayed in Azkaban for years. He knew his wife had died
giving birth to his child, but he never saw the baby. He demanded to be let
out so he could raise his child. He became irrational and was put into
solitary confinement. A short while later, he was found dead in his cell. My
grandfather believes he was thrown into the Dementor pit by some of the
guards."
"The 'Dementor pit'?" Ralph said, shuddering.
Rose sighed shallowly. "The Dementors used to be the guards at
Azkaban. When they were deemed untrustworthy, most of them were
rounded up and imprisoned there themselves, in a virtually lightless room in
the cellar. Just like with the Borleys, the Dementors are creatures of
shadow: without light to show up against, they're helpless. Azkaban's dark
pit keeps them imprisoned and weak but mad with hunger. If a human was
thrown into the pit with them, it'd be an extremely horrible death."
Ralph asked, "But why would the guards throw that poor sap into the
pit?"
"Revenge," Scorpius said simply. "They believed he was holding out,
protecting the worst Death Eaters, the ones who hadn't yet been captured.
Most of the new guards at Azkaban had been former Aurors and Harriers.
They'd seen loads of people killed by the Death Eaters and had no mercy on
someone they believed was protecting those responsible. Nothing was ever
proved though."
"So the baby was an orphan," James said quietly. "Just like my dad."
Scorpius nodded. "To my grandfather's great anger, the baby was a girl
child. To this day, he has no idea that it was the hex of Severus Snape that
clouded his judgment, working through the dagger itself. He refuses to refer
to the child as a 'she', calling it either 'the Bloodline' or even 'it'. He
simultaneously despises her and obsesses over her, knowing she bears the
last shred of his dead master. The baby girl was raised by Lianna's parents,

who were not particularly loving. My grandfather has spied on them
regularly through the years. The grandparents were never overtly cruel, but
Grandfather believes they secretly blame the girl for the death of their
daughter."
Rose shook her head. "Stop. I don't want to hear any more. It's just too
beastly."
James face had grown hard and resolved. He looked at Scorpius. "No,"
he said. "You've told us everything else. Now tell us the most important
part. Tell us who the Bloodline is."
"I'd thought you would have figured that bit out by now," Scorpius
answered. "She is the only known orphan girl currently at Hogwarts,
although she never speaks of it. She has her mother's dark hair and her
father's height, but everything else, she gets from the persistent dark
influence of the dagger Horcrux, from the last fragmented wisp of the soul
of Voldemort. She was standing right next to you this afternoon, hidden
behind a bookshelf in the library, listening to you three. It was her presence
that set off the Sneakoscope in Ralph's satchel. You know who I mean. Tell
me her name because I can't bring myself to say it out loud. My grandfather
would kill me, and he'd probably use that stupid dagger to do it."
James looked at Rose and Ralph, measuring their faces, and then he
looked at Scorpius.
"The Bloodline of Voldemort is Tabitha Violetus Corsica," he said
firmly. "Somehow, I've known it all along."
"Then you know something else as well," Scorpius said, sighing and
standing up.
"What?" Ralph said, looking one by one at everyone in the room.
Rose answered calmly, "We know who Bloodline is, so we also know
who the host of the Gatekeeper is going to be. Both are Tabitha."

James shook his head slowly. "The only thing we don't know," he said,
"is how and when it's going to happen and what we can do to stop her."

18. THE TRIUMVIRATE
Last year, during a rather harrowing adventure in the Forbidden Forest,
James had met something called a 'dryad', a living spirit of a tree. The dryad
had been quite beautiful, in a sort of sad, hypnotic way, and she had warned
James that the blood of his father's greatest enemy beat in a new heart, not
one mile hence. The dryad had also said that James should beware: your
father's battle is over, she'd told him, yours begins.
James hadn't known what the dryad meant by that, but he'd had a
nagging idea of who the Bloodline of Voldemort was. He'd suspected
Tabitha Corsica all along, even though others had told him she was simply a
smart, rather devious girl with some nasty delusions about recent history.
Now that James knew that Tabitha was, in fact, the Bloodline of which the
dryad had warned, he felt increasingly helpless. There was nothing he could

do to stop Tabitha's plan, mostly because he didn't know what the plan
entailed. Scorpius insisted that his grandfather had never told him the
specifics of how the Bloodline was to become the Gatekeeper's host apart
from it being a test that would prove Tabitha's willingness and commitment
to the Gatekeeper's purpose. James would have liked to ask Merlin about it,
but his latest interview with the Headmaster had only increased his worries
and fears about the great sorcerer. Similarly, James might have written a
letter to his dad explaining everything and asking for his help, but his dad
already had his hands full with the sale of the Burrow, providing living
arrangements for Grandma Weasley, and heading up the new subdepartment for quelling the mysterious Dementor uprisings in London.
Besides, in his last letter, James' dad had admitted that they believed the
whole Gatekeeper affair was a complicated ruse created by enemies of the
Ministry to sow fear and instability. How could James ask his dad for help
fending off something that his dad believed was imaginary? More and
more, James found himself thinking of the dryad's last words: this wasn't
Harry Potter's battle; it was James'.
Scorpius had suggested that the best they could do was to simply
watch Tabitha as closely as possible, a task that was increasingly difficult as
the end of the term neared. James saw her regularly during rehearsals for
The Triumvirate since Tabitha was the assistant director and increasingly in
charge of the rehearsals while Professor Curry attended to final production
planning. Tabitha's malicious critiques of James' performances had not let
up. If anything, she was even harder on him, always apologizing for making
him repeat his lines in front of the rest of the cast, as if she was trying to
assume polite responsibility for his apparently woeful performance. "After
all," James had heard Tabitha saying quietly to Professor Curry, "I did
consent to his receiving the role along with the rest of the casting
committee. Nevertheless, hindsight is always clearest, as they say…"
The main task of observing Tabitha fell to Ralph since he shared the
same house as her. Apart from the same general moodiness, however, Ralph
couldn't report anything unusual about Tabitha's conduct. To James, she
seemed either vaguely impatient or even more ingratiatingly polite than
ever.

Classes began to wind down as the final performance loomed. Loads
of parents and family were travelling to attend the show, including James'
mum and sister. His dad, much to his own disappointment, was needed in
London for the first crackdown by the Dementor task force and therefore
would not be able to attend the show. Ginny, however, had promised to
record James' performance on a borrowed set of Omnioculars so that Harry
could watch later. In light of the suspected large audience, Professor Curry's
intention of conducting an entirely non-magical, Muggle-style production
had been overshadowed by her students' increasing determination to put on
a wholly sensational show. James had seen evidence of secret magical
enhancement in nearly every aspect of the production, from the treadlepowered wind machine running mysteriously without anyone manning the
treadles, to unplugged electrical spotlights that still glowed. In fact, since
Hogwarts castle had no source of electrical power, several small Muggle
generators had been delivered to the school to provide power for the lights.
Even Professor Curry, however, had failed to realize that the generators
needed a constant refill of petrol to run. In the interest of expediency,
Damien had surreptitiously charmed the generators to emit an industrious
chugging sound and, just for the look of it, plugged all the electrical cords
into them. Professor Curry had wisely stopped asking after the generators
and turned to more pressing matters.
Petra's class schedule seemed to consistently conflict with James' so
that he rarely had the opportunity to rehearse with her on-stage. This was
unfortunate, Professor Curry admitted, but not a great problem since
Tabitha Corsica had arranged for an understudy to fill in for Petra whenever
she couldn't attend rehearsals with James. Josephina Bartlett's vertigo had
abated to the point where she could read through the lines on Petra's behalf,
and having originally been awarded the part of Astra before her unfortunate
'accident', she was the logical choice to serve as Petra's stand-in. She did so
with a kind of resigned fervor, caught between her embarrassment at having
to serve as understudy and her desire to prove how much better an Astra she
would have made. She lurked on the stage, arms folded and barely noticing
any of the other actors, until Astra's lines came up. At that point, she would
launch into her readings, switching from apathy to full melodrama in the
mere blink of an eye, and then switching back to apathy the moment Astra's

lines were completed. She barely seemed to notice James on the stage even
though many of her lines were meant to be directed toward him. For her
own part, Tabitha seemed pleased with Josephina's discomfiture, smiling
smugly whenever her lines came up. James was especially annoyed to have
to practice the climactic kissing scene with Josephina, especially since he'd
never once rehearsed it with Petra herself.
"Don't you dare try to kiss me, you little upstart," Josephina muttered
as she leaned in, smiling mistily.
"Wouldn't dream of it," James growled through his own loving smile.
"Just try not to fall on me, all right? You're still looking rather tipsy."
He made sure to miss Josephina's lips by a wide mark. A moment later,
the lights extinguished and Tabitha called for a ten-minute break while the
stage crew refilled the rain machine.
That night, James had the dream one more time, although this time he
felt that it was a true dream and not a direct vision into someone else's
reality. It began as always with the flash and whicker of blades and the
rattle of old wood. The figure in the dream walked toward the rippling pool
and looked in. As always, two faces swam up out of the depths, a young
man and a young woman. This time, however, they looked different. He
recognized them vaguely as his own long dead grandparents, his dad's mum
and dad. They didn't seem to be looking at the girl with the long dark hair.
Instead, they seemed to be looking directly at James, where he floated in the
darkness next to her. Their faces seemed grave and worried, and although
they couldn't speak, they communicated with their eyes: Beware, grandson;
watch closely and step lightly. Beware…
The dark-haired girl turned away from the faces in the pool, and James
looked up at her. Even now that he knew she was Tabitha Corsica, her face
remained lost in shadow. James tried to speak, to tell her not to hide any
more, that there was no point, but his lips felt as if they were sewn shut. He
moved along with her as she passed the pool, and as she moved, the dream
changed. The mossy, dark walls faded into distance and were replaced by
cold wind on a grassy hilltop. A huge full moon burned overhead, yellow

and bloated, as if it meant to fall on him. The Tabitha shape continued to
walk, and James saw that they were in a graveyard. A leaning wrought-iron
fence marched drunkenly on the right, embracing a collection of worn
headstones and crypts.
"I've never been here before," a young man's voice said. James looked
and could just make out a tall silhouette walking next to the Tabitha shape.
Tabitha herself seemed taller as well, and her voice was rather different
when she spoke.
"Why would you have come here before?"
"My grandparents are buried here," the young man's voice said
somberly. "I've no memory of visiting their graves."
"How sad for you," the Tabitha shape said.
"If you say so."
They came upon a glow in a hollow. It emanated from a lantern
hooked onto a post. Near it, a stooped man was scooping earth from a
grave. He straightened as they approached, surveying them with a cold,
appraising look, as if he'd been expecting them.
"Whose grave is this?" the Tabitha shape asked.
The young man sighed, and suddenly James recognized who it was. "It
is mine," Albus answered, turning to the Tabitha shape. James finally got a
good look at him in the lantern glow. He looked about seventeen or
eighteen, handsome but sallow, gaunt, as if he hadn't eaten in days. "You
knew this day was coming," he said, removing his wand from his robes.
"All sides have been chosen. He senses you are here; he comes now, flying
like the wind. But there is something you must do first."
And Albus handed the Tabitha shape his wand.
Even knowing this was a dream, James tried to cry out, to warn Albus,

but his lips wouldn't obey him. He could do nothing but watch. The Tabitha
shape raised Albus' wand, pointing it toward the sky. She sniffed, and her
shoulders hitched as if she were crying. Then, without warning, there was a
burst of green light and an awful hiss. The stooped man with the shovel
looked up first, and then so did the Tabitha shape. Albus didn't raise his
eyes. Finally, James found he could look up. Spreading overhead was a
bright, shimmering shape. It was a huge green skull, its mouth open. Out of
the skull's mouth poured a leering snake, its jaw unhinged and menacing.
The eerie glow of the Dark Mark lit the entire graveyard. On one of the
nearer headstones, James saw his and his sister's names. His blood chilled
even though he knew these were the names of his dead grandparents.
There was a loud crack, and another figure appeared, wand already out
and pointing.
"Stop!" the figure cried, and James thought the voice sounded oddly
familiar. "Both of you! I know what you think you have to do, but it doesn't
have to be this way! Albus, don't let it end like this!"
"Do it," Albus said, but James couldn't tell if he was speaking to the
newcomer or the Tabitha shape.
"No!" the newcomer cried, and there was an edge of desperation in his
voice. "The rest are coming, and they won't waste time on words! We only
have a few seconds! Albus, don't be a fool!"
"I'm sorry," Albus said, still looking at the Tabitha shape. He nodded
slowly to her. She lowered the wand, aiming it at him.
The newcomer stepped forward, crying the name of the Tabitha shape,
appealing to her. "Please don't! This isn't who you really are!"
"You're right, James," the Tabitha shape said quietly, almost sadly. "As
of tonight, I will be known by an entirely different name."
There was an ears-splitting cry and a blast of light, obliterating

everything. James fell into that light, struggling to maintain the dream, but
it broke apart like glass, like a scene glimpsed in a shattering mirror.
James woke up, panting and slick with sweat. He scrambled to a sitting
position on his bed, his heart pounding. The phantom scar on his forehead
throbbed so hard he thought it must split his skull open. He clapped a hand
to it, hissing through his teeth. After a minute, the pain began to recede, but
very slowly. When he could bring himself to do it, James turned to sit on
the side of his bed. He opened his satchel in the darkness and rooted inside,
searching for his quill and a bit of parchment. Finally, just as the sweat on
his body began to cool in the midnight air of the dormitory, he leaned over
his bedside table and scribbled three words. He stared at his own
handwriting in the moonlight. It didn't make any sense. Probably it was
meaningless. It had only been a dream, and not at all like the other dreams
his phantom scar had induced. But it had been wrong in some fundamental,
very worrying way. For reasons he couldn't bring himself to admit, he felt
that it was important to remember it.
Finally, now shivering, James folded himself back into his covers. He
had no idea what time it was. Tomorrow was the official performance of
The Triumvirate, and after that, the last week of school. Somewhere out
there, perhaps not far away, the Gatekeeper was lurking, waiting for its
human host. And here, inside the very same walls, was that host, preparing
herself for the task that would make her worthy. And somehow, in some
way, James was meant to stop it all from happening. Your father's battle is
over, the dryad had said, yours begins. They were not comforting words,
but they were the words that rang over and over in his head, following him
as he descended, slowly, into a fitful, dreamless sleep.
Nearby, Scorpius Malfoy lay awake, watching, not speaking or
moving. When he was certain that James had finally drifted back into sleep,
he slid out of his own bed. Tiptoeing, he crossed the room, passing before
the window and casting his shadow over James. Scorpius leaned over
carefully, squinting. He didn't have his glasses, but the moonlight was very
bright and Scorpius could just make out James' handwritten words. He
scowled at them for a long time, unmoving in the moonlight. Finally,
Scorpius made his way back to his own bed.

Unlike James, Scorpius did not sleep for the rest of the night.

"Today's the big day!" Noah proclaimed, plopping into a seat next to
James at the breakfast table. "Eat up, 'Treus'. Can't have you fainting
onstage, can we? After all, you don't have an understudy."
James groaned. The tables seemed unusually crowded this morning
since some of the families planning to attend the performance had arrived
the evening before. Ralph's dad, Denniston Dolohov, sat with him at the
Slytherin table, smiling uncertainly at the noisome throng. Noah's own
parents sat at the head of the Gryffindor table with Steven, his brother.
"Shouldn't you be sitting with your family?" James asked grumpily.
"Bad luck, mate," Noah said wisely, tapping the side of his nose.
"None of the family are supposed to see you before the performance.
S'tradition, isn't it?"
Sabrina shook her head, wobbling the quill that was stuck in her red
hair. "You're thinking of weddings, you prat. Grooms and brides aren't
supposed to see each other."
"Well, where do you think they got the idea?" Noah asked around a
mouthful of toast. "After all, what's a wedding but a big real-life
performance?"
"You're not nervous, are you, James?" Sabrina asked, ignoring Noah.

"I might be, a little," James admitted. "I mean, I never expected we'd
be packing out the amphitheater. A lot more people are coming than I
thought. Seems like everybody's family is going to be here, doesn't it?"
"My mum's coming," Sabrina said, nodding. "And my Uncle Hastur.
He went to Hogwarts himself about a hundred years ago and this will be his
first time back."
Graham piped up, "Both my parents are coming even though I'm just a
page boy. I only have one line, but they act like I'm the star of the whole
show."
"I wish you were the star of the whole show," James said, slumping
onto his folded arms.
"Does somebody have a spot of stage fright?" Rose asked brightly,
settling into a seat opposite James.
"He's got it bad," Noah said, nudging James with his elbow. "At this
rate, he'll be useless by the time the curtains go up. I might have to play
both parts! Fortunately, I'm up to it."
"Treus and Donovan's swordfight might be a bit of a challenge,"
Graham suggested, squinting thoughtfully.
In an effort to change the subject, James asked, "Where's Petra this
morning? Are her parents coming?"
"I saw her in the common room this morning," Noah answered.
"Looked like she was working on her lines still. She was studying
something pretty hard. I didn't interrupt her. I assume her family is coming,
but she hasn't talked much about it."
"I asked her yesterday if her parents were coming," Sabrina nodded.
"She said she'd be seeing them both tonight. It'll be cool to meet

everybody's families, don't you think? The only other time we see them is
on platform nine and three-quarters, and that's always so rushed."
"Yeah," Graham said, rolling his eyes. "Nothing I like more than
getting my cheeks pinched by everybody else's grandma."
"If only your cheeks weren't so ruddy cute," Noah said, reaching
across the table. Graham batted him away, scowling.
James found it difficult to concentrate on any of his classes. In fact,
with so many parents and family members arriving throughout the day, few
professors seemed to expect much from their classes at any rate.
Regardless, James was glad of the distractions. He tried very hard to take
notes during Divination despite the fact that Professor Trelawney seemed to
frown on anything other than practical demonstrations.
"Divination is an instinct, not a study, Mr. Potter," she trilled, stopping
next to his desk and tapping his parchment with one long, purple fingernail.
"Your work is to hone the latent ability inside the gifted witch and wizard,
not merely to repeat techniques and theories. Let go of your boundaries and
allow yourself to truly see, my boy. What fate do you divine for yourself in
the octocards?"
James blinked up at Trelawney, then glanced down at the strew of
octagonal cards on the table in front of him. "Oh, er, I see this one, which
has a star on it," he said, pulling a card out at random. "Stars represent pain,
and, er… Christmas. It means that I'm going to be run down by a lorry next
holiday, but that I won't be killed, just really, really hurt," he looked up at
Trelawney again, judging her response. "I'll probably die weeks later, in the
hospital… er… right?"
Trelawney's face changed to a bemused smile and she ruffled his hair
indulgently. "You are trying too hard, dear boy. You chose a star because
that's what you shall be this night." Trelawney sighed mistily and drifted
toward the front of the room. "Few people know it, but I was a rather gifted
performer myself in my younger years. There are those today who still
speak of my singing performance in the Hogsmeade Players production of

The Amazing Ahazrial's Show of Shows. Alas, I submitted instead to the
burdensome calling of Seer and teacher, thus curtailing my own storied
career on the stage. I am fully assured, however, that your performance
tonight, Mr. Potter, will be a delight both sublime and breathtaking. I have
already foreseen it." She smiled back at James, her eyes magnified
ridiculously in her enormous spectacles.
James glanced aside at Ralph, whose face was as pale and worried as
James felt. Considering Professor Trelawney's track record with predictions,
her assurances about tonight's performance were anything but comforting.
For the rest of the afternoon, James couldn't help reciting his lines over
and over in his head. He was terrified that he would step onto the stage and
completely forget every word. It didn't help that everyone seemed to think
he should be enjoying the excitement. As he moved through the halls, even
older students grinned and clapped him on the shoulder, wishing him good
luck and telling him to 'break a wand'.
He saw his mum and sister fleetingly after dinner on his way to the
amphitheater. They'd just arrived at the castle, having taken the train from
London. Lily was wide-eyed, so enamored by the castle and the bustle of
the students that she barely noticed her older brother. His mum, on the other
hand, seemed almost impossibly proud of James.
"Oh, you've just become such a man," she said, brushing his shoulders
and straightening his tie. "You'll be simply wonderful, James. You aren't
nervous, are you?"
"Between people telling me how great I'm going to be and asking me if
I'm nervous," James said, sighing, "I'm wondering why I ever signed up for
this part to begin with."
Ginny clucked her tongue. "You signed up because you knew you
could do it, and obviously, everyone agrees. Now just try to relax. You
won't do yourself any favors by worrying about it."
"Easy for you to say," James grumped.

"It is, actually," Ginny agreed, smiling at her son. "Because unlike the
rest of the people here, I know exactly what you are capable of, James.
Relax, you'll remember this night for the rest of your life. Try to enjoy the
moment."
James nodded. "Did you bring the Omnioculars?"
"Your Uncle Ron has them," Ginny replied, rolling her eyes. "He
insists on recording the play himself. I told him he could do it so long as he
let Hermione help. They stopped over in Hogsmeade to meet up with
George, Angelina, and Ted. They should be here in half an hour or so, and
they're bringing a little surprise for you."
James had forgotten how many of his own family and friends were
going to be in attendance. He felt another pang of nervous fear but quelled
it. Truthfully, now that the moment was nearly upon him, he felt a little
better about the performance. One way or another, it would be over soon.
After the production, Professor Curry had arranged for something called a
'wrap party' in the Great Hall, complete with punch and an array of sweets.
All the cast and crew would be there along with their families. It was a
great relief to know that in less than three hours, James would be there as
well, eating cake and congratulating Petra, Noah, and the rest on their
completed performance. Thinking that, James left his mum and sister,
telling them he'd see them afterwards. Ginny smiled and nodded, shooing
him on.
The ushers outside the amphitheater's main entry saw James coming.
Hugo Paulson, resplendent in his red coat and pillbox cap, opened a door
for him. "Curry was looking for you," he said as James passed. "They want
to get you into your beard right away. Gennifer insists she could charm you
to grow a real one for the night, but Curry isn't going for it. Looks like it's
glue and goat hair for you after all."
James nodded, hardly hearing Hugo. As he came into the amphitheater
he stopped and looked down at the stage. It bustled with activity as the crew
manhandled the castle backdrop into place and Professor Curry marched

around, testing spotlights and calling for last-minute adjustments. On the
stage, Petra glanced up and saw James. She smiled and waved him down.
James smiled back, and for the first time he felt a thrill of delight untainted
by fear at being part of such an elaborate production. He ran down the main
aisle, taking the stairs two at a time.
"There's our Treus," Curry acknowledged as James climbed onto the
stage. "Your costume is in the dressing room. Get into it and then get down
to make-up, Mr. Potter. Your beard awaits."
James looked around, but there was no sign of Tabitha Corsica. She
was probably backstage overseeing the costuming and make-up. He hoped
he wouldn't see her as he ducked behind the castle backdrop, heading for
the makeshift changing rooms.
The boys' dressing room was crowded with bustling characters
struggling into tight-fitting coats, leotards, and baggy pantaloons. Cameron
Creevey stopped James as he passed.
"Is this hat on right?" he asked, turning the strange headwear this way
and that. "It's a five-corner hat, right? But what corner goes in front? Does it
matter?"
"You'll have to ask Gennifer, Cam. I don't have the foggiest notion.
Looks fine to me like it is."
"Gennifer's busy in the girls' changing room," Cameron fretted. "I just
don't want to look like an idiot in front of everybody!"
Noah called over from the three-way mirror, "Honestly, I think you
have it upside down, Cameron. Try flipping it over."
James stopped Cameron as the boy scrambled to invert his hat. "He's
winding you up, Cam. Leave it alone."
"And you've got your cummerbund on all wrong," Noah added.

"You're supposed to wear it over your bum like a diaper. See how Graham's
wearing his?"
James rolled his eyes and took advantage of the overall confusion to
slip past Cameron. Sure enough, he found his costume hung on a hook next
to his locker. His name had been pinned to the front on a piece of
parchment. The curtain wasn't scheduled to go up for nearly an hour, but
James couldn't help feeling that he needed to hurry. He was buttoning the
last of the many buttons of his vest when a voice spoke directly behind him,
startling him badly.
"Hiya, James!" Zane chirped. "Can you give me a quick boost here?"
James turned, exasperated and bemused. "Zane! You have to stop
popping up like that!" Impatiently, James produced his wand and shot a
quick Stinging Hex at the blonde boy, who yelped in pain and dropped the
huge bouquet of flowers he'd been holding.
"Yow!" Zane cried, clutching his bottom. "That really smarts! What
was that for?"
"Zane?" James said, reaching out to touch his friend. "It's really you? I
thought you were another mad Doppelganger message! What are you doing
here?"
"Well, I was trying to reach that vase on the shelf there," Zane said,
rolling his eyes. "But now I'm thinking I'll just leave this good luck bouquet
right there on the floor, what do you say?"
"It really is you!" James said, struggling not to laugh. "I'm really sorry,
mate! I thought you needed a magical boost like the other times. I really
didn't mean to Sting you in the… but how'd you get here?"
Zane shrugged and grinned. "I got out of school day before yesterday.
When I talked to your mum over the holidays, she asked if I'd like to ride
along with them to see your big performance. How could I turn it down?

My parents agreed and I rode the Floo Network over to your place in
London first thing this morning. How 'bout them apples?"
"That's excellent!" James exclaimed. "How long are you here for?"
"Rest of the week, if it's all right with old Merlin Magicpants. You two
still on the outs?"
James opened his mouth to explain, then shook his head. "I don't
know. It's complicated. Ask me after the show, all right?"
"You got it," Zane nodded. "I better get back out front. Your mum is
saving me a place, but it's going to be standing room only, and some of
those parents can get pretty cutthroat about seats. By the way, it's probably
best if you don't get too close to the red flowers with the yellow tips. Those
came from George, and he was grinning an awful lot about 'em."
James nodded seriously, glancing down at the bouquet on the floor.
"Understood, thanks."
Damien Damascus pressed toward the boys, a prop sheep under one
arm.
"James, come on!" he called. "Gennifer's going to have twin
hinkypunks if you aren't wearing a goatee in five minutes. Hey, Zane, need
a zap?"
"Nope, I'm good for the night," Zane said, patting his backside. "See
you at the party, you guys!"
James scrambled after Damien, struggling to button the last of his
buttons and already hot in his tights and waistcoat. After a moment, he
stopped, ran back, and grabbed the enormous prop sword and scabbard.
Clanking, he trotted to make-up, his stage fright mostly forgotten in the rush
of simply getting ready and his happiness at seeing his friend.
Gennifer was holding James' goatee in her hands as he ran up and

plopped into a chair.
"Honestly," she said, swabbing the beard with a foul-smelling,
yellowish glue, "for the amount of trouble Muggles have to go through to
put on a show like this, I'm surprised they do it at all."
"Maybe that's why they watch so much telly," Victoire commented
from a nearby chair. "My mum says Muggle children spend more time in
front of the telly than they do asleep."
Damien was still standing nearby. He sniffed, "But not as much time as
Victoire spends in front of the mirror every day, so that's all right, then."
Victoire scoffed, ignoring the laughter that followed.
Five minutes later, James stood offstage alongside Petra, who looked
beautiful, if a bit overstuffed, in her huge pink dress and curls. James peered
carefully around the edge of the curtain. The amphitheater was indeed
almost full, with loads more people still filing in, seeking seats, and
babbling enthusiastically. James scanned the crowd, finally finding his mum
in the middle section, ten rows back. Aunt Hermione and Uncle Ron sat on
her right, apparently arguing over who was going to handle the
Omnioculars. Ted Lupin sat next to Ron. He'd shortened his hair again,
although it was still longer than it had been when he'd been in school last
year. He looked much better than the last time James had seen him,
although still slightly bedraggled. On Ginny's left, Lily sat up straight in her
good yellow dress. She spied James and grinned, waving excitedly. James
smiled back at her and waved surreptitiously, trying not to attract anyone
else's attention. He placed a finger to his lips in a shushing gesture, and she
nodded, pretending to zip her lips. As James watched, Zane sidled past a
group of annoyed parents, heading toward the empty seat between George
and Lily. Satisfied, James turned back to Petra and the assembling actors.
Nearby, Scorpius was dressed in a soldier's outfit similar to James'. He
didn't seem to be enjoying it.
"Nervous?" Petra asked quietly.

"Yeah," James nodded, "but excited, too. You?"
Petra turned to look out at the dark stage behind the curtain. She shook
her head slowly. "Not any more. It'll all be over tonight, no matter what."
Jason Smith trotted out of the backstage darkness, his wand lit.
"Anybody seen Corsica?" he whispered harshly, looking from face to face.
James shook his head. "She's not out front? She's supposed to be
managing the ushers."
"None of you?" Jason asked, dismissing James. "Bloody hell."
As he stalked away again, muttering under his breath, Henrietta
Littleby shrugged. "I saw her an hour ago, but that was before any of us
were supposed to be here. I guess that doesn't count, does it?"
"Where was she?" James asked, turning to Henrietta.
"She was in the second-floor girls' bathroom," Henrietta replied. "I
didn't hang around in there when I saw her. She gives me the heebies, she
does."
James frowned, thinking.
Henrietta, whose reputation as a gossip was well-known, went on,
"Strange thing was she wasn't really using the bathroom. At least not the
way one normally uses it. She was just standing there looking at herself in
one of the mirrors, talking. The first thing I thought was that she was
practicing her lines, but then I remembered she doesn't have any lines, does
she? She's the assistant director." Henrietta giggled.
"She was talking to herself?" James asked curiously. "What was she
saying?"
Henrietta blinked at him. "How should I know? I didn't hang about

long enough to notice. But it sounded kind of foreign now that I think about
it. How weird is that? Pretty weird, if you ask me."
"Yeah," James nodded thoughtfully. "Weird."
Standing nearby, Scorpius narrowed his eyes.
"Places, everyone!" Curry suddenly rasped, approaching the gaggle of
costumed students and making shooing motions. "Behind the curtain! Come
now, it's almost time!"
James followed Petra as she ducked behind the curtain, moving to her
opening mark. James found the little taped 'X' on the floor, marking his
position for the beginning of act one. His heart was pounding, but he was
no longer nervous. Somehow, he'd left his stage fright backstage. Now that
he was standing up front, waiting for the curtain to rise, he simply felt
excitement. It thrummed in his arms and legs like magic, and in that
moment, he thought he understood why even Muggles went to all the
trouble to put on productions like this. One could come to love this feeling
if they weren't careful. He gulped and looked aside. Petra saw him and
smiled a crooked smile, nodding once. Across the stage, Noah and the rest
of the actors shuffled nervously into place, lost in semi-darkness behind the
huge, thick curtain. Through it, James could still hear the babble of
hundreds of voices. Then, finally, there was the clack of Professor Curry's
heels crossing the stage on the other side of the curtain. A spotlight clicked
on, framing her; James could see her shadow on the backside of the
curtains, caged in the center of a perfect circle of light. The crowd fell silent
and a round of polite applause wafted into the air. It sounded eerily close.
Curry held up her hands and nodded.
"Thank you, ladies and gentlemen," she said loudly and clearly, not
using her wand to amplify her voice, "and thank you as well for being here
tonight. I know that many of you have come from quite far away, and on
behalf of the students who've worked so hard to prepare tonight's
production, many thanks indeed. My name is Tina Grenadine Curry, and as
many of you know, I am Hogwarts' Professor of Muggle Studies. I believe
tonight's presentation will be particularly interesting, not only because this

is such a classic tale of the wizarding world, but because, as a term-long
exercise for my Muggle Studies class, this production shall be presented in
an entirely non-magical fashion. As such, prepare to be amazed, amused,
and delighted, my friends, by the extremely creative and unconventional
methods we've implemented to portray this beloved story. And now, ladies
and gentlemen, without further ado, may I present your sons and daughters,
brothers and sisters, friends and family, as they depict for you this Hogwarts
Muggle Studies rendition of… The Triumvirate!"
Applause rang out again, deafeningly this time, as Damien Damascus
and Ralph began to hoist the curtains. Jerkily, the red velvet rose, and as it
did, the applause grew louder. Spotlights came on, picking out the revealed
stage elements. One of them glared on James, blinding him temporarily and
hiding the audience. He struggled not to squint, remaining perfectly still
until the curtain was entirely raised. And then, finally, as the applause
diminished into silence, the scene on the stage launched into motion.
Everyone moved at once, bustling and passing one another, forming a
passable representation of a busy medieval square. And then, exactly as
planned, Noah's voice cried out, articulating his lines with meticulous care
and volume.
"Tis fine a day t' appraise the troops, my king," he blared, stalking
across the stage next to Tom Squallus, who had a pillow stuffed into his
vest, creating a fat belly over his skinny legs.
"Indeed," Squallus bellowed, turning and jamming his hands onto his
hips. "And more the better time to ease my daughter's wonderment for the
peasant life. But look, my Astra comes!"
And Petra moved into view, stepping out from behind a painted
wooden rampart and into the light of a gold-tinted spotlight. James didn't
have to act as if he was astonished at how beautiful she looked. She smiled
fleetingly at the fat king, and then turned to James, allowing her smile to
grow more genuine. The crowd tittered and began to applaud again. Many
of them knew this scene well, and knew its significance; this was the
moment that the princess first spied the army captain with whom she'd soon
fall in love. James, on his cue, stepped out of the line of soldiers and bowed

over one outstretched leg, doffing his cap grandly. The applause was
delighted and amused, and James suddenly decided that acting was a lot
easier than he had expected.
Act one proceeded with nearly effortless speed and ease. James found
his lines coming easily to his tongue, and he pronounced them loudly and
carefully, always being aware to face the audience and keep his chin up.
During Donovan's famous address to the troops, James allowed his eye to
wander out over the crowd. He could barely see through the glare of the
spotlights, but he could just make out the delighted smile and straight
posture of his mum, the grim concentration of Lily as she tried to follow the
story, and the crooked half-frown of Zane.
During the scene change for act two, James was hastily stripped of his
waistcoat and given a sailor's kerchief. As he moved onstage, preparing to
give his rousing—and very well-known—rallying speech, he saw Graham
and Jason Smith manning the treadles of the wind machine. He launched
into the speech, trying to summon the same anger and determination he'd
felt when auditioning for the part early in the term.
"Wizards and men, forth draw ye wands and wits," he cried,
unbuckling his scabbard and letting it fall to the floor. He produced the
oversized prop wand and raised it. "To fight the violent seas this night, that
by the morn we'll hold our win, or lie in beds of ocean sand: our beaten
glory's shrine!"
Just offstage, Graham and Jason treadled furiously as the crowd burst
into applause and even a few hoots and whistles. The prop sail flapped in
the increasing mechanical wind as if in the teeth of an oncoming storm, and
the enormous painted backdrop trundled aside, revealing an angry
cloudscape painted with blues and purples.
The presentation marched on with its own strange inertia, bowling
over the myriad little bumbles, forgotten lines, and missed cues that
Professor Curry had promised would happen—and assured them the
audience would barely notice. Graham appeared onstage for his scene, his
face beet red and his eyes as round as plates. He'd been so worried about

missing the cue for his only line that he interrupted the line before it,
answering the question that hadn't even been asked yet. Tom Squallus
sputtered, trying to make sense of his own scripted response, as Graham
grinned in relief, looking out at the audience and struggling not to wave at
his parents. A bit later, Ashley Doone performed such an enthusiastic
presentation of the Marsh Hag that James heard children crying in the
audience. And then, during the magical sword fight between Treus and
Donovan, which was performed in midair while suspended from a
complicated system of ropes and pulleys, James' sword was accidentally
knocked from his hand during a particularly enthusiastic parry. It clanked to
the floor and both James and Noah stared down at it dumbly for a moment.
Then James, in a fit of inspiration, furiously unbuckled his scabbard and
waved it triumphantly over his head. Noah grinned and they finished the
swordfight clanging sword to scabbard as the crowd laughed and cheered.
Finally, the climactic finale of act three was upon them. The king was
dead, Donovan was defeated, and Treus, mortally wounded but clinging to
life, had rescued Astra from the vengeful sleeping potion of the Marsh Hag.
The castle had been struck by lightning and was crumbling into flames as a
magical storm beat upon it, and James felt pretty sure that he knew now
why this story was known as a tragedy. He limped across the stage, leading
Petra toward the huge prop gate. The gate shook back and forth as Ralph
and Sabrina stood behind it, rocking it with all their strength. Jason and
Graham had once again manned the wind machine, billowing the castle's
banners with a good imitation of a magical gale; swinging orange spotlights
mimed the effect of raging flames and lightning. James stumbled
dramatically as he led his beloved Astra toward the gate.
"Advance! We're nearly free," Petra cried, dropping to one knee next
to James, as if imploring him. "The castle's doomed, but hope prevails! O
Treus, curse it not!"
James was sweating under his costume, and it gave his face a fittingly
dramatic sheen in the flashing lights. He smiled weakly at Petra and reached
for her face. "I curse not hope," he said, and then coughed. "I've braved the
tempest's watery wrath and fell that sorc'rer's might. I've cursed them all to
gaze upon your loving face, but hope? What life I've left, I live in

barricades of hope. Though God Himself may shake this world to fall upon
itself, my love and hope remain. Depart my dear and leave me now: I walk
to death in peace!"
"Pray no, beloved!" Petra cried, and even James was impressed by the
mixture of anger and desperation she put into those three words. "For
months and years I've longed for thee alone: my dreams, the home of thy
desperate love! I'll not depart my place at body's side, lest unrequited
dreams shall crush my soul!"
"Then give me now a testament to love," James said firmly, struggling
to his feet and pulling Petra with him. "A kiss to cure the pains of death,
this one to stand for all!"
Petra hesitated, her eyes shining with emotion, and James was
impressed with her acting. For a fleeting moment, he was quite glad that
they had never rehearsed this scene together, for he felt sure that the
spontaneous chemistry of this moment could only happen once. Petra
leaned toward him, still holding his right hand. She closed her eyes as the
lights began to dim and the wind machine cranked up to full power,
streaming through her long hair. And then, as James closed his eyes, not
even remembering to miss Petra's lips, a bolt of blinding pain sank into his
forehead. It burned through his phantom scar worse than anything he'd felt
so far, and he stumbled, yanking his hand from Petra's to clap it to his
forehead. The lights blinked off and the stage fell into pitch darkness.
The wind machine hadn't stopped however. In fact, it seemed to be far
stronger than James had ever felt it. It pushed him as he reeled, and he fell
to the floor in the darkness, his right hand still clamped to his forehead.
There was a long, ominous creak and then a resounding crash. Dimly,
James understood that the wind machine had blown over the gate prop and
that it had just missed him.
"Petra!" he shouted, struggling to get up. There was movement all over
the stage, and even now, the wind machine hadn't stopped running.
Something was very wrong. Wands were lit on the stage, and James had a
sense of stage-hands rushing about, struggling to keep the rest of the set

from blowing over. He scrambled to his knees, trying to make sense of what
was happening.
"Shut it down!" someone rasped desperately.
"I can't! It's running by itself!"
"It's shaking apart! Look out!"
Suddenly, spotlights illuminated the stage again, blinding James. At
that same moment, the wind machine produced a loud screech and rattle.
One of the fan blades wrenched free and spun through the air, slamming
into the turret backdrop. Off balance, the machine shook violently and tilted
over. Stage-hands scattered as it loomed slowly and crashed to the stage
floor where it finally clanked to a halt.
Amazingly, no one seemed to have been hurt. James spun on the spot,
looking for Petra. As he'd suspected, the enormous prop gate had fallen at
his feet. For a moment, James was sure that Petra was beneath it. He
dropped to his knees but could find no sign of her. She must have fallen
safely on the other side.
The house lights came up as Professor Curry rushed out on stage. The
audience was babbling with alarm. Many people had stood, peering
anxiously at the stage and calling the names of their children and relatives.
"Please, calm down," Professor Curry called, but her voice was lost in
the rising chaos. "No one is hurt! Do return to your seats, everything is
under control—"
A woman's scream pierced the amphitheater, and James gasped. The
crowd fell silent as everyone looked to the source of the scream. James,
from his vantage point on the stage, was among the first to see, and his
blood chilled.
Ginny looked down at the empty seat next to her, her eyes wild and
stunned. "She's gone!" she cried desperately, trying not to panic. "Lily's

gone! Where'd she go! She was here just a moment ago! Where's my
daughter?!"
Zane stared down at the empty seat between him and Ginny. He
glanced up at James, making eye contact, and then ducked down. He
reappeared a second later holding a pair of small yellow shoes. His eyes
were deadly serious as he held them up. Something had taken Lily, taken
her right out of the amphitheater in that moment of dark chaos. Ginny took
the shoes from Zane and looked around, her eyes pleading.
"Lilyyyy!" she suddenly shrieked, her voice cracking. As if on cue, the
audience exploded into frantic motion, scrambling for the exits, rushing the
stage, calling names and babbling raucously.
James darted offstage, stripping his costume coat off as he went. In the
confusing backstage darkness, he could just see the doorway that led out to
the seating area. He had to get to his mum and find out what had happened.
He angled toward the door, but something moved out of the darkness,
blocking him. James looked up, scrambling to a halt, almost running into
the large, dark shape.
"Come with me, boy," a voice rumbled, and a very strong hand
clamped onto James' shoulder. Instinctively, James pulled away, but the
hand held him firm.
"Let me go!" James exclaimed, anger and panic mingled in his voice.
"You must come with me," Merlin answered, his voice low and calm.
"The Gatekeeper is afoot, James Potter, and it seeks you."
"No!" James cried, and pulled away with all his might. He wrenched
loose from Merlin's grip and struggled to produce his wand. Merlin stepped
after him, and James saw that he had his staff with him. There was no
fighting the Headmaster. Without thinking, he ducked and leapt under
Merlin's arm.
"James!" Merlin roared after him, but James refused to listen. He

threw himself through the doorway and fell into the crowd, bowling several
people over.
"Mum!" he called, climbing onto a seat and scanning the crowd.
"Mum!"
A hand tugged at James' sleeve and he lunged away, toppling off the
seat and landing on a large figure, who grunted.
"Ow! You're heavier than you look!" the figure bawled, struggling out
from beneath him.
"Ralph!" James cried, getting up. "What's happening?"
Zane appeared next to Ralph, helping them both to their feet. "We have
to get out of here," he said over the noise of the crowd. "This place is a
mess, and we know Lily isn't here. Rose is waiting for us just inside the
castle. Come on!"
"Where's Mum?" James called as the three threaded through the
crowd.
"Your Uncle Ron and Aunt Hermione took her inside as well," Zane
answered. "George and Ted are already planning to search the castle. Since
it's impossible to Disapparate from the school grounds, Lily must still be
here somewhere."
Ralph's face was tense with anger. "Who did this? Do you think this is
what Corsica's been planning? Does it have to do with the Gatekeeper?"
"It's the only thing that makes sense," James replied as the three ran
through the archway leading into the castle. Rose had been watching for
them. She jumped forward to join them, her face pale and scared. Panting,
James took a moment to tell them of his encounter with Merlin.
"He said the Gatekeeper was looking for you?" Rose asked. "What's
that mean? Why?"

James shook his head. "Who knows? The point is, he knows
something big is going down tonight. He wanted me out of the way!"
"Nobody has seen Tabitha all night," Ralph interjected. "She never
showed up for the play. Curry was right mad about it. She must be behind
Lily's disappearance!"
"She's involved, no doubt," a new voice answered. James turned to see
Scorpius approaching, his face tight and anxious. He shook his head.
"Look, this isn't how Grandfather said it'd happen… it's all wrong. I came to
help, if I could."
Rose spoke up, "You said your grandfather never told you how Tabitha
was supposed to become the host of the Gatekeeper!"
"Yeah," Scorpius said quickly, meeting Rose's eye. "Well, I know a
little more than I let on, all right? I can explain now or we can start looking
for James' sister. What do you think, Weasley?"
"What else haven't you told us?" James demanded, advancing on
Scorpius.
Scorpius averted his eyes impatiently. "Look, all I know is that this
isn't how the plan was explained to me. I don't know the details, but I do
know this is all wrong. The longer we stand here arguing, the more danger
your sister is in. Do you understand?"
James narrowed his eyes.
"You must be Scorpius," Zane interjected, sticking out his hand. "I've
heard loads about you. I'm Zane. I may have to curse you later, so I thought
it'd be best to get introductions out of the way now."
Ralph rolled his eyes impatiently. "Come on! Let's just go to the Great
Hall! That's where your mum went with everyone else. We can help with
the search party."

"No," James said, still looking at Scorpius. "There's only one place we
need to look, isn't there? Second-floor girls' bathroom, where Henrietta last
saw Tabitha."
Rose frowned. "Why would she be there?"
"I wondered the same thing when Henrietta said that," James replied,
already leading the way down the corridor. "But then I remembered: that's
where Moaning Myrtle lives."
"'Moaning Myrtle?'" Zane repeated. "Who's she?"
"Oh, she's a resident ghost," Rose replied. "Lives in the bathroom
because that's where she was killed decades ago."
Zane screwed up his face as he walked. "She died in the potty? That
seems pretty unlikely, doesn't it?"
"It's complicated," Rose answered wearily. "It wasn't just a bathroom.
It was also a portal to… to…" Rose gasped. "James, that's it!"
James glanced back over his shoulder, nodding. "Henrietta said
Tabitha was up there talking to herself in the mirror, using some sort of
foreign language."
Rose's eyes were wide. "Of course! The Bloodline would be a
Parselmouth, just like Voldemort! She'd be able to open the Chamber of
Secrets even though it's been closed and sealed all these years! That must be
where she took Lily!"
"I've been seeing it in my dreams all along," James said. "If only I'd
have recognized it before!"
"Hey!" a voice suddenly called, halting the five in their tracks. James
spun, expecting Merlin to come striding out of the shadows, his staff at the

ready. Instead, two figures ran out of the darkness, one small and skinny
and the other tall and bedraggled.
"Albus!" Rose cried. "Ted! Is it you?"
"Yeah," Ted panted. "Your mum sent me, James. She's worried sick
about the lot of you."
"And I came mainly because I sneaked away when Mum wasn't
looking," Albus proclaimed. "I couldn't bear just sitting around and doing
nothing."
"Ted, how'd you find us?" Zane asked, frowning.
Ted blew out a deep sigh. "I have skills…" He tapped his nose.
"Werewolf skills, if you must know. Between Rose's soap and the
peppermints in Ralph's pocket, you lot are easier to sniff out than a dead
Grindylow."
"Tell Mum we're going to find Lily," James said, straightening. "We
know where she is and who has her."
"Do you now?" Ted replied seriously. "That's pretty amazing
considering your aunt and uncles are currently scouring the entire castle for
her. What gives?"
"It's too much to explain," Rose said. "Just pass on the message. We're
going to go get her back."
"Nothing doing," Albus said, shaking his head. "She's my sister too. If
you know where she is, I'm coming along."
"Albus, it's Corsica who has her!" James exclaimed.
"Tabitha Corsica took Lily?" Ted interjected. "Why would she do that?
Are you sure?"

"We're sure," Ralph answered, nodding. "And we don't have much
time."
"What are we waiting for, then?" Albus said grimly. "I don't care who
has her. We'll figure out the details after we get her back, all right? Come
on!"
The group tramped along the corridor, now running full out. As they
filed up the stairs, James heard Ted behind him, speaking in short bursts.
"I'm sorry, Ralph… about the whole trying-to-rip-your-arm-off
thing…"
"S'okay," Ralph panted. "Don't mention it…"
"I was angry…" Ted went on, "Petra and me… when we talked that
day… it just brought everything back… since she was going through so
much of the same… kind of thing…"
James interrupted. "What do you mean, Ted? I thought you two were
talking about why you broke up with her?"
They reached the top of the stairs and Rose turned a corner, leading
them toward the bathroom.
"Me?" Ted said. "Who told you that? She broke it off with me months
ago. I thought everybody knew that."
"No," James said, "we all thought she'd gone into Hogsmeade that day
to try to get back together with you!"
"You think that's what we were talking about?" Ted chuckled drily.
"Hardly. We were talking about her parents. I thought you lot knew all
about it. You saw the package she got from the Ministry, didn't you?"
James was about to answer when Rose turned, pushing open the heavy

door to the second-floor girls' bathroom. She barreled in, followed by Ralph
and Scorpius. A red flash suddenly glared through the doorway and there
was a scream. James yanked Zane down as he ducked. Another flash jetted
through the air overhead. Ted lunged through the doorway, rolled, and
landed on one knee, his wand out and pointing.
"Stop!" he shouted.
James was still crouched in the open bathroom doorway. He raised his
head and saw Ralph splayed unconscious on the tile floor. Tabitha Corsica
was standing over him in the middle of the room, grinning humorlessly. Her
hair was askew and her eyes were wild. She had one arm crooked around
Rose's neck, yanking the smaller girl nearly off the floor. With her other
hand, she poked her wand at Rose's temple.
"Well!" Tabitha exclaimed glassily. "Isn't this quite the party? I hadn't
expected so many of you, nor quite this soon, but it wasn't as if I wasn't
prepared, was it?"
"Tabitha!" Scorpius said, stepping forward, his own wand out. "What
are you doing?"
"As if you didn't know, Scorpius Malfoy," she cried, giggling a little. "I
might ask you the same thing! When I saw that you were accompanying
this little entourage, I admit I wondered at your own intent."
"This isn't the way it's supposed to happen," Scorpius said, taking
another step forward. "I never agreed to a kidnapping."
"Your grandfather knew you wouldn't have the stomach for what this
night truly required, Scorpius!" Tabitha declared triumphantly. "But you
were never really necessary anyway! Ever since the little service you
performed last summer, you've been merely a pawn. Your grandfather told
me so himself!"
"What service?" James demanded, getting to his feet and producing his
own wand. "What's she talking about, Scorpius?"

"James, get down!" Ted exclaimed, not taking his eyes off Tabitha.
"All of you, get back while you can!"
"James," Rose murmured, trying to twist away from Tabitha's wand,
"just go!"
"Tell them, Scorpius!" Tabitha commanded, renewing her grip on
Rose's neck. "Tell them just how much of a 'trustworthy friend' you are! Tell
them how you've played them all for fools!"
Scorpius' wand trembled in his hand as he pointed it at her. He glanced
aside at James, his eyes bright and scared.
Tabitha laughed again. "You might do yourself a favor, James Potter,
by wondering how I knew so many of you were coming, and exactly when.
Ask yourself how I came to be so well-prepared for your arrival. Can you
guess? I think even you can!"
It was Albus who answered, calling over James' shoulder. "You have
the Marauder's Map!" he said, both shocked and disappointed. "But Tabitha,
why?"
"Oh, my dear Albus, the important question is not 'why', it is 'how',"
Tabitha replied. "You see, Lucius Malfoy has a rather good thief in his
service. Doesn't he, Scorpius?"
Scorpius shook his head angrily, interrupting her. "All right! Just shut
up, Corsica! If you insist, I will tell them. It was I who took the map and the
Cloak! Are you happy?" He lowered his wand and turned to James, his face
tortured. "Look, I lied. It was me. I rode along with my parents the day they
went to your grandfather's funeral. I told them I'd wait in the car, but…
that's not exactly what I did. While they were gone, I sneaked out of the car
and crept into the house. I found your parents' room and searched it as
quickly as I could. I stole the Marauder's Map and the Invisibility Cloak, all
under my grandfather's orders. You have to understand, James, I was
confused! I wanted to impress my grandfather, and prove myself as a

Malfoy and a Slytherin! I wanted to show him I was better than my own
turncoat father. But I didn't expect it would lead to this! I swear it!"
James was completely stunned. Breathlessly, he asked, "And the doll?"
Scorpius couldn't meet James' gaze any longer. He dropped his eyes
and nodded. "That hadn't even been part of the plan. Grandfather hadn't
known of it. I saw it on the bedside table and thought it might be helpful. I
thought it'd impress my grandfather. And it did, oh yes. He had grand plans
for that doll, although they didn't work out quite like he'd wanted."
"I knew you were a rat!" Albus cried, pushing forward. "I smelled you
a mile away!"
James held his brother back, and amazingly, Albus relented. "But why
did you tell us about Tabitha?" James asked. "Why did you show us the
memories in the Pensieve?"
"Don't answer that, Scorpius!" Tabitha said. "Enough talk. It's time for
the real work of this night to begin. All of you, away! Or Weasley dies. If
you think I'm bluffing, you'll know better when she lies dead on the floor
and I've descended to the Chamber. Now go!"
"Tabitha, you're as deluded as my grandfather!" Scorpius cried angrily.
"Let her go! What do you think you're doing?"
"I'm doing the work I was created for!" Tabitha shrieked, jabbing her
wand into Rose's temple. "One thousand years' planning has come to this! I
am the edge of the blade of revenge! I am the hand of balance! I am the
Bloodline of Lord Voldemort!"
"You?" Scorpius scoffed, stepping forward boldly, not even raising his
wand. "If you believe that, then you're as deceived as I've been! We both
should have known my grandfather wouldn't tell anyone the whole of his
plan. Put down your wand and let her go!"
"Nooo!" Tabitha wailed, and she seemed to crumple. Her eyes were

wild, darting. "I am the Bloodline! It is my duty to descend to the Chamber
of my forefather! I am the host of the Gatekeeper!"
"You aren't," Scorpius declared firmly. "If you were, you would've
been able to open the Chamber on your own. But you couldn't, could you?
No matter how hard you tried. Because you aren't a Parselmouth! You're
nothing more than a convenient distraction! That was why my grandfather
wanted me to show them the memories and make them believe the
Bloodline was you: to distract them from the real Bloodline!"
"NOOO!" Tabitha shrieked again, closing her eyes and crumpling. Her
wand wavered and her grip loosened on Rose. Suddenly, impulsively, she
pointed her wand at Scorpius.
"Avada Kedavra!" she screamed, her face twisting in rage. Green light
erupted from her wand.
Scorpius lunged, instinctively turning sideways, just as they'd
practiced in Defence Club. The jet of green light missed him by inches,
striking the wall behind him and exploding in a burst of sparks. Scorpius'
maneuver knocked him off balance, however, and he struck his head hard
on the edge of the sink as he fell. At that moment, James saw Rose's mouth
tighten and she kicked backwards, connecting with Tabitha's shin. The taller
girl's wail of anger turned into a cry of pain and she stumbled. Rose ducked
from beneath Tabitha's arm and Ted leapt forward. He captured Tabitha as
she collapsed, but the fight had completely gone from her. Tabitha dropped
her wand and sank to the floor, slipping through Ted's arms.
"Is he all right?" Rose called, jumping to Scorpius' side.
"If he isn't dead," Albus announced, striding into the room and
pointing his wand, "I'll kill him."
James gently steered his brother away from the bleeding boy on the
floor. "Back off, Al. You can deal with him later. I think he'll be all right."
There was a groan as Ralph sat up, rubbing his head. "What

happened?" he moaned. "Am I dead?"
"Tabitha Stunned you," Zane answered, helping Ralph to his feet. "Be
glad that's all it was. She stopped at crazy a few blocks back."
"I am the Bloodline," Tabitha sobbed. "I've felt the guiding hand of the
Dark Lord! I was promised! My parents would be avenged! No one else
meets the requirements! I am the only orphan left within these walls! It
must be me!"
Ted glanced sharply down at Tabitha. "What did you say?"
"I am the only orphan left, Ted Lupin!" she cried, raising her eyes
angrily to him. "Now that you've gone from these halls, it had to be me!
The prophecies say that a child of tragedy would be the host of the
Gatekeeper. My parents are gone, dead these many years! And Lucius
Malfoy has confirmed it! He told me how the Ministry killed my father, and
how my mother died when I was born!"
Ted was shaking his head slowly. "That's not true," he said. He glanced
back at James, his face grave. "Then none of you know, do you? I assumed
she'd told you, just like she told me."
James shook his head. "Who? Told us what?"
"That day at Hogsmeade," Ted answered. "She needed to talk to me
because she'd just found out about her parents. She wanted to talk to
someone who'd gone through the same kind of loss. She never knew until
the package came. It was too much for her to bear… to find out so much, so
fast…"
"Petra?" James said, stepping forward. "You mean the package from
her father?"
Ted frowned and shook his head. "James, it wasn't from her father. The
Ministry sent it. It was all of her father's belongings. He'd willed them to
her when he died in Azkaban years ago. When she turned seventeen, the

Ministry released them to her. She never even knew he'd been incarcerated.
Amongst the old shirts and shoes, there was a note. It was addressed to the
baby daughter he'd never met. He told her he believed that the guards would
soon kill him, but that he couldn't do anything to stop it. They thought he
was protecting his former Death Eater employers, but he really wasn't. He
didn't know anything about them; they'd never told him their names or even
showed him their faces. He wanted Petra to know that he would have turned
his bosses in if he could've, and that… well, that he loved her, and that he
was sorry he'd never be there for her."
"It was Petra?" James whispered, barely allowing himself to consider
it. "That can't be!"
Ted nodded seriously. "She doubted it herself. She went to Merlin
about it, and showed him the letter. He offered to show her the truth in that
Magic Mirror of his, but he warned her that she might not truly wish to
know. She looked anyway, and she saw it all, exactly as it'd happened. They
threw her father into the Dementor pit. It was… it was awful. She was
completely devastated."
Rose glanced from James to Ted, her eyes wide. "But she never told
anyone she was an orphan, did she? We all assumed she had a mum and dad
like the rest of us!"
"Petra was raised by her grandparents, but she never told us that," Ted
replied. "The Gremlins and I, whenever we saw them at the station, we just
assumed they were her parents and that they'd had her late in life. She never
talked about them, and we always sort of guessed that she didn't have a very
happy home life. They'd only ever told her that her mother had died in
childbirth. They never spoke of her father at all, and Petra learned not even
to ask."
"I should've known," James said, touching his forehead. "I saw her in
my dreams over and over. I believed it was Tabitha because I couldn't see
her face, but it all fits now. The dark shape in the corner… it talked about
restoring the people she'd lost. It told her she would be allowed to avenge
them, and even get them back. I even saw them… her parents, reflecting in

a sort of glowing green pool! Petra believes the Ministry killed her father,
and her mother died as a result, and now she's going to do what she thinks
she has to do to get them back! The dark shape in my dreams, it said there
was only one way to do it—blood for blood!"
"Lily!" Rose gasped, covering her mouth.
"She wouldn't!" Albus said, shaking his head. "Petra would never hurt
Lily. Would she?"
"Morganstern!?" Tabitha half sobbed. "Impossible!"
"Not really," a different voice answered mournfully. "If you think
about it, I mean."
Everyone turned to a ghostly figure seated on the windowsill in the
corner.
"Myrtle!" Rose cried. "How long have you been there?"
"That's Moaning Myrtle?" Zane asked, arching an eyebrow. "I
expected something a little more… er…"
"It's rude to speak of people as if they aren't there," Myrtle chided
sadly. "Even if, technically speaking… they aren't. But don't worry, I'm…
used to it." She sighed hugely.
James spoke up. "Sorry, Myrtle, but this is really important. What do
you know about this?"
"Oh, now everyone runs to Myrtle, don't they? 'What have you seen,
Myrtle?' 'Tell us everything you know, Myrtle.' But I know how it goes: the
moment I tell you, you'll forget about poor, pathetic Moaning Myrtle. It was
the same with your father, James Potter. Your brother looks a lot more like
him, even though he's not got that silly fake scar on his forehead."
"What's she talking about, James?" Albus asked out of the corner of

his mouth.
James shook his head. "I'm sorry, Myrtle, but this is really serious. Our
sister is in trouble. You have to help us!"
"I know," Myrtle cooed. "Poor little Lily. Perhaps she'll keep me
company here in the toilet."
"Myrtle!" James cried, exasperated, but Rose placed a hand on his
chest, stopping him. She turned to the ghostly figure, a thoughtful look on
her face.
"You know, Myrtle, if you help us, I bet Lily's father would be really
grateful. I bet he'd even come to visit you, to tell you how much he
appreciates all your help."
Myrtle looked petulantly at Rose. "Harry? He wouldn't. Would he? He
probably doesn't even remember me."
"I'm certain that he does," Rose said confidently. "I've heard him speak
of you. He'd probably be very pleased to, er… catch up with you."
Myrtle seemed to brighten a bit. "Do you really think so? Oh, it's been
so long, but I knew he'd come back someday. I've always had a special
place for him."
"Yes," Rose nodded. "But first, do tell us. What have you seen? What
do you know about Petra?"
"Oh yes," Myrtle replied morosely. "Poor thing. She never once spoke
to me, you know, all the times she was here. She probably believed I
couldn't see her under that Invisibility Cloak, but those only work on the
living."
Zane stepped forward. "Petra has the Cloak! When was she here,
Myrtle? What did she do?"

Myrtle flitted down next to Zane and placed a ghostly arm around his
shoulders. "Oh, often. She spent the most time down there over the
holidays, when few other people were in the school. But she's been down
there at least once a week lately. I don't know what she does down there, of
course. I, er… don't follow her. But then, not twenty minutes ago, she came
through with little Lily. Just before Tabitha came back again with that silly
map."
"Where did Petra take Lily, Myrtle?" Ted asked impatiently. "Did they
go into the Chamber of Secrets?"
"Well, of course, you silly boy," Myrtle said, tilting her head
coquettishly. "Where else?"
Albus shook his head, exasperated. "Why didn't you tell anyone?"
Myrtle peered at him mistily. "Because no one ever asked," she
answered simply.
James turned, stalking back into the center of the room. "How do we
get down there?" he demanded. "Where's the door?"
"Hah!" Tabitha exclaimed, still crumpled on the floor under the
watchful eye of Ted Lupin. "You'll never get through! If I couldn't open it,
no one can! Only the true Bloodline can speak the incantation to open the
Chamber of Secrets!"
"Is that true, Myrtle?" Rose asked, turning back to the ghost.
"Oh no," Myrtle replied, shaking her head slowly. "No, no, no. Loads
of people have opened the Chamber. That horrible Ron Weasley opened it
years ago, just by imitating the sounds Harry Potter had made. If he could
do it, anyone could."
"You worthless little—" Tabitha cried, straightening. "All that time you
watched me trying… You let me make a fool of myself!"

"You didn't need my help," Myrtle sniffed.
"Myrtle," James said seriously, stepping carefully toward the ghost.
"We don't have much time. Can you tell us the incantation?"
"Don't you dare!" Tabitha exclaimed, her voice splintering.
"That's enough out of you, Corsica," Ted warned, raising his wand.
"Shut up or I'll Stun you. It's the least you deserve."
"It's an awful sound," Myrtle said, ignoring Tabitha. "It gives me
shivers to hear it, and I'm dead. I always jumped down into my U-bend
before Petra said the incantation."
"Please, Myrtle," Rose begged. "How does it go? We have to get down
there."
Myrtle looked sideways at Rose, raising one eyebrow. "You really
think Harry will come and see me? You promise?"
"I promise," Rose nodded. "Please tell us."
Myrtle sighed and flitted slowly to the center of the room. Carefully,
she opened her mouth and produced a horrible, hissing noise. It was
guttural, almost gurgling. It made James' hair stand up.
When she was finished, Zane looked around and asked, "So who's
going to do it? I know I can't make a sound like that."
Ralph took a deep breath. "I'll try it," he announced, sighing with
resignation. "After all, I'm a Slytherin."
Nobody argued. Ralph opened his mouth and imitated the noise as well
as he could. James thought he did a remarkably good job since the same
sounds in Ralph's mouth still sent chills down his spine. As soon as he
finished, a grating rumble shook the bathroom. The sink directly behind

Ralph began to lower, receding into the floor. Tabitha gasped and moved
aside, her pale face a mask of awe and jealousy.
"Come on," Ted said grimly. "We have to hurry."
"You can't go, Ted," Rose said, touching Ted's arm. "Unless you plan
on taking Tabitha along, too. She's a seventh year. I might be able to guard
her, but I'd feel a lot better if you did it."
Ted grimaced in frustration, looking away and fingering his wand.
Finally, he turned back. "You go," he said reluctantly. "I'll guard Corsica,
but we won't leave until you come back, understood? Besides, it's just Petra
down there, right? You'll be able to talk sense into her. She'd never hurt
anyone."
James nodded, but he wasn't at all sure that Ted was right. Ted hadn't
had the dreams. "Right. Let's go." He took a deep breath and turned toward
the ancient stairway.
"And James," Ted called, "tell Petra the same thing she told me! This
isn't the way! Tell her I said that, all right?"
James nodded, and then plunged down the stone steps, his friends
following closely.

19. THE SACRIFICE
James illuminated his wand as he trotted down the ancient stone staircase.
Rose and Albus followed, eyes wide, with Zane and Ralph in the rear.
James' phantom scar had been aching ever since that horrible burst of pain
when he'd moved to kiss Petra; now, as he entered the dark chamber, the
ache increased to a throbbing pulse.
"I was in the Chamber of Secrets once before," Rose called, her voice
echoing in the dark, cavernous space. "Years ago, when it was still on the
Hogwarts tour. My parents refused to go down with me because they'd
already seen it of course, and didn't want to relive any of that, so I went
with Uncle George. There wasn't much to see, really, since they'd taken the
dead Basilisk out years ago. It was just an open space underground. Most of
it had caved in."

James gasped and stumbled to a stop, throwing out one hand to warn
the rest and holding his wand high in the other.
"Was this a part of the tour when you were here, Rose?" he asked
breathlessly.
Rose stopped behind him, her eyes widening. Behind her, Ralph and
Zane clambered to a halt as well.
The floor ended at James' feet as if it had been broken away. Beyond it,
seamless black space indicated a chasm of unimaginable depth. Ominous
whooshing sounds wafted out of the blackness, and as James raised his
wand, its light glinted off the edges of huge, swinging blades.
"No," Rose breathed. "This was definitely not a part of the tour. Where
did it come from?"
"I'd say it was opened only recently," Zane said, pointing. "Look!"
James saw what Zane was pointing at. A pair of huge stone doors
stood open on either side, overlooking the depths of the chasm before him.
"How did Petra open those?" Rose asked incredulously. "They must
weigh tons!"
"I'm more interested in how she crossed that," Ralph said, gesturing at
the chasm and the huge swinging blades. "We'll never be able to follow
her!"
James stooped down and hefted a medium-sized rock. He weighed it
thoughtfully in his hand, and then heaved it out over the chasm as hard as
he could. It tumbled into the darkness, turning slowly, and then there was a
flash and a spark as one of the magical blades swooped down. It pulverized
the rock in midair, and then sucked back up into darkness.
James looked aside at Rose and Ralph, his eyes wide. Ralph shrugged

helplessly.
Albus drew a deep sigh. "I think I might know a way to cross that," he
said, as if he dreaded admitting it.
"What, Al?" James asked, but his brother had already turned. He
walked a few paces away until he stood at the base of the stone steps again.
He glanced back.
"Dad taught me this one," he said. "It saved his life once. Maybe we
can use it to save Lil." He turned back to the stairs, raised his own wand,
and as loudly as he could, shouted, "Accio broomstick!"
Almost a minute passed, and James had begun to doubt the spell had
worked when an exclamation of alarm echoed down the stone steps.
"No!" Tabitha's voice cried. "Not my broom! You can't!"
Ted called over her, "Incoming!"
The broom dipped down the stone steps and halted next to Albus.
James, standing nearby, could hear the faint hum of the broom. He
remembered it well from his doomed attempt to commandeer it last year.
"You can't be serious," Zane said, stepping forward and examining the
broomstick. "This is Tabitha's broom! The bogus Merlin staff from last year.
You're not going to try to ride it across that chasm, are you?"
"It's my broom now," Albus said grimly. "Tabitha gave it to me,
although she may well be regretting it."
Rose proclaimed, "But you can't just fly across! You saw what
happened to the rock! I don't know how Petra made it across with Lily, but
there must be some other way!"
Albus strode to the edge of the chasm and straddled the broom. "This
is no ordinary broom, Rose. I don't know where Tabitha got it, or how it

works, but it knows where it needs to be. In a way, it's kind of the reverse of
James' Thunderstreak. It knows where to go, and it puts it into the mind of
the rider. The broom won't let us get chopped. And besides, we don't have a
choice. Hop on behind me, James, and hold on as tight as you can."
James gulped and climbed onto the broom, wrapping his arm tightly
around his brother's waist.
"Wait!" Rose cried. "This is mad!"
"That's why we can't wait, Rose," James said, gritting his teeth. "If we
wait, we'll realize how completely daft this is. Go, Al!"
James felt Albus tense. Together, they coiled, and as Rose reached
forward to grab James, her face terrified, Albus threw himself forward,
taking James and the broomstick with him.
The broom plummeted under the weight of both James and Albus, and
James squeezed his eyes shut, hugging his brother as he leaned over the
broomstick, struggling to pull it upright. The broom corrected swiftly,
angling upwards and accelerating. James still had his lit wand in his fist. He
gripped Albus with his left arm and held the wand aloft, fighting the force
of their momentum. Wandlight flashed off a long, steely blade as it dropped
alongside them, scything the air. Albus lurched sideways as the broom
banked away, and James nearly dropped his wand, fighting to hold on. The
air hissed on all sides as huge, curved blades sliced the darkness, dropping
like swords and barely missing them. Amazingly, the broom seemed to
determine the course on its own, dodging with lightning speed through the
flashing, deadly barrage. James struggled to hold on, trying to keep his
body as close to the broom and Albus as possible. There was a high, rasping
sound as one of the blades sliced a neat seam in his robe, and James felt the
chill of the metal whoosh past his skin. He yelped and leaned away, pulling
the broom slightly off course.
Albus swore, trying to correct, but it was no use. The broom seemed to
have lost its bearing. It pushed upwards beneath them, and James had a
sense that they were nearing the other side of the chasm. Suddenly, a rough

stone wall loomed into view, as if it were falling on them. Albus pulled up,
trying to help the broom to reach the ledge, but it was too high. The broom
struggled, flying nearly straight up, still weaving past falling blades. And
then, suddenly, there was light and space, and James was spinning off the
broom, flailing for something to hold onto. He landed hard on stone, rolled,
and scrambled up, his chin scraped and bleeding but otherwise unhurt.
Albus lay ten feet away, dangerously near the edge of the chasm they
had just traversed. He moaned and clutched his head.
"Al!" James called, stumbling over to him. "Are you all right?"
"I think we crashed," Albus replied, shaking his head as if to clear it.
"That was just sick, wasn't it? Ow!"
James glanced down, "Oh no! I think we broke it!"
"My leg?" Albus asked, examining his shin critically. "Ouch! I'm
pretty sure it isn't supposed to bend in that direction, but it's nothing Madam
Curio won't be able to fix, right?"
James blinked at Albus' crooked leg. "Oh. Ew. No, that's not what I
meant. Sorry, Al. I meant that." He pointed at the broomstick, which was
splintered messily into two pieces.
"Oh no! That hurts even worse than my leg! How are we going to get
back now?" Albus exclaimed, picking up one of the pieces.
James shook his head. "Like you said, let's just rescue Lily, and we'll
figure out the rest later."
Albus started to scramble to his feet, and then hissed in pain, falling
back. "I'm no good, James. Unless you plan on carrying me, I'm stuck
here."
"Come on, I can't do this by myself!" James said, feeling a sudden,
helpless anger.

"Well, if you hadn't pulled us out of control back there, I wouldn't be in
this condition, you stupid berk!"
"Me? Whose idea was it to ride the Broom from Hell across the pit in
the first place?"
"Well, you sure weren't coming up with any brilliant ideas, were
you?"
"Shh!" James suddenly hissed, half turning.
"Don't shush me, you big git!" Albus cried. "If my broken leg wasn't
still attached, I'd beat you with it!"
"SHHH!" James insisted, waving one hand frantically. He cocked his
head, listening. Albus stopped and listened as well, furrowing his brow.
"It's a voice," he whispered. "Sort of. That's creepy,"
"It's coming from that cave over there," James pointed. As his eyes
adjusted to the gloom, he could see a greenish light flickering from the
mouth of the cave.
"Go, James," Albus whispered urgently. "Go get Lily back if you still
can. And if you can't, I swear I'll kill you."
James nodded. "All right. I just hope nobody else beats you to it."
He took a deep breath, still staring at the green glow of the cave
mouth, and then began to walk toward it.
James' phantom scar began to sing a long, high note of pain. It rang in
his ears, throbbing with the steady thrum of his heartbeat. Petra wouldn't
really hurt Lily, would she? He truly wanted to believe she wouldn't, but he
remembered the dreams, remembered the coaxing, lulling, infuriating words
of that phantom voice. It had promised Petra she could get her parents back
if only she was willing to make the hardest choice of all, to repay blood for

blood. Petra was obviously not in her right mind. She was in a sort of
trance, wasn't she? She was under the control of that horrible voice, and the
last shred of the soul of Lord Voldemort which beat in her veins. But even
as James approached the entrance to the cave, he knew that was not entirely
true. Petra was being influenced, yes, but she wasn't being forced to do
anything. The shred of Voldemort wasn't enough to completely control her,
only to sway her, to coax and persuade her. The greatest influence inside
Petra was her own broken heart, and her deep, unspoken rage, and the
desperate, bottomless hunger for judgment on those who'd taken her parents
from her. In the thrall of those emotions, James knew that Petra may well
do almost anything if she was convinced that it would satisfy those needs.
Thinking that, James shuddered. He stepped into the mouth of the cave
and saw it all.
There was the flickering green pool, lit from within, and there was
Petra, still dressed in her pink costume dress. The curls had begun to fall
from her hair, and her make-up had run, forming tear-streaks down her
cheeks. Her eyes were dry now, however. She had her wand out, pointed at
Lily, who stood before her, expressionless and limp, like a puppet. The
high, horrible voice was babbling, and James could only now make out the
words.
"The boy James comes!" the voice said with delight. "Look upon him,
my dear! He comes, just as predicted!"
James gasped, hearing his name in that awful voice, but then Petra
turned to him, and his gasp turned to a violent shiver as the pain in his
forehead spiked. Petra's eyes were eerily dead. In the flicker of the greenish
pool, her face looked like a mask. She held his voodoo doll in her free hand,
and James could see that someone had drawn a crude green lightning bolt
onto its forehead.
"James," she said blankly, still pointing her wand at Lily, "you
shouldn't have come. Now it's too late."
James stumbled forward, moving into the light of the cave. "Petra,

what… what are you doing?"
Petra shrugged slightly, and then turned her gaze back to Lily. "What I
was made for," she answered, sounding eerily like Tabitha Corsica. She
nodded at Lily and said, "You know what to do, dear."
Without blinking, Lily walked slowly around the glowing pool, her
bare feet making no noise on the stone. On the far side of the pool, James
saw that a series of steps led down into the water. Quite slowly, Lily began
to descend the steps. With a shock of horror, James realized that his sister
was under the Imperius Curse.
"I'm sorry, James," Petra said. "I know you can't possibly understand
why this has to happen. It seemed awful to me at first too, but now I know it
is the only way. It really is best for everyone, even Lily. You have to trust
me."
"…have to trust me," the horrible, keening voice echoed. It seemed to
be speaking constantly, muttering under Petra's words, almost as if it was
feeding them to her.
"Lily!" James called, stepping forward. "Stop!"
Lily's eyes didn't so much as flicker. She took another step into the
eerie green pool. James reached desperately for his wand, but it wasn't in
his pocket. Too late, he realized he must have dropped it when he and Albus
had crashed the broom. He ran forward, meaning to drag his sister bodily
from the pool, but just as he was within reaching distance, something
repelled him. He hurtled backwards through the air, as if pulled by a rope
around his waist. He struck the mossy stone wall and fell, the breath
knocked out of him.
"One at a time, James," Petra said sadly, still pointing her wand at Lily.
"I'm sorry. Please don't try that again. I really don't want to hurt either of
you before it's all over."
James gasped for breath, and the phantom scar on his forehead burned

like a branding iron. The awful voice echoed Petra's every word, and for the
first time James wondered if Petra was even aware of the voice. Was it
possible that she didn't realize how it was influencing her? He glanced
around, looking for the source of the voice. Just as in his dreams, it seemed
to emanate from a shadowy figure in a dark corner. It stood perfectly still,
apparently wearing an old bowler hat and a dusty coat. Its arms hung
loosely at its sides.
James struggled to get up, but he felt weak and heavy, as if something
was pushing down on him. It was the awful weight of some new presence,
filling the room like black smoke, darkening it. It was the Gatekeeper.
Silently, eerily unseen, it descended into the Chamber, watching, preparing
to enter Petra once she completed the necessary rite of willingness:
murdering Lily.
Lily took another step into the pool. Her yellow dress began to float
about her, sinking into the murky water, and as she descended, something
else seemed to be ascending from the other end of the pool. James
recognized the shape. It was the young woman he'd seen so often in his
dreams: Petra's mother. As Lily lowered into the water, Lianna arose from
her own reflection, smiling at her daughter, raising her hands. Petra's eyes
shone as she looked at the ascending shape.
"Petra!" James called, catching his breath. "That can't really be your
mother! It's a trick! She's not real!"
"Don't listen to him," the high voice whispered, wheedling. "He is the
son of those who let her die. He is full of lies and deception. But his voice
will soon be stopped forever, and with his death, you shall have your father
back as well! Then all will be prepared; balance will be restored. The new
age of judgment will be at hand, and all because of your sacrifice…"
"All because of my sacrifice," Petra said quietly, tears running down
her face again, smearing her makeup.
Lily's chin touched the surface of the pool. A drop of water hung there,
and then she stepped forward again, her mouth dipping below the surface.

Her hair spread around her, floating on the water like a corona. The ghostly
figure of Lianna Agnellis put one foot onto the stone floor. She wasn't even
wet.
"This isn't real!" James screamed desperately, struggling to his feet.
"It's all coming from that voice! What is it?"
"There is no voice," Petra sang lightly, rocking her head back and
forth. "There is no voice other than the voice of my dead father. You see, I
have brought his things here, where they await him. His shoes and hat, his
coat. Even his Cloak of Invisibility, which I've used myself these many
visits. He'll be so happy to see them again, don't you think?"
James shook his head fervently. "That's my father's Cloak, Petra!
You're being deceived!"
Petra didn't seem to hear him. Her eyes gazed trancelike at the shape of
her mother, but her wand was still pointed at Lily as she descended the last
step, slipping beneath the surface of the water. The heavy, dark sense of the
Gatekeeper's presence increased. The task was nearly done; Lily would
soon be dead and the Gatekeeper would unite with Petra, its host. Then
there would be no sending it back, no stopping it from running rampant
upon the earth. James wanted to lunge toward the pool again, risking
everything to pull his sister out of the water, but even in his desperation he
knew Petra would easily repel him once more. There was no hope, and yet
James realized this was his last chance for action. Frantically, he looked
from his drowning sister to the shadowy figure in the corner. He could see
now that it wasn't a figure at all but simply an assembly of clothes—Petra's
father's belongings, propped like a scarecrow. The voice came from within,
hidden somehow. Suddenly, horribly, James knew what he had to do.
"This isn't your father," he exclaimed, scrambling across the room,
skirting the pool and his dying sister. "Petra, look!"
Before Petra could stop him, James grabbed the empty arm of the coat.
He pulled as hard as he could, yanking the coat loose. It tore away from the

shape that had supported it, knocking the hat loose as well, and the horrible
voice cried out in fury.
"Nooo!" it keened. "Beastly boy! How dare you touch me!"
James stumbled backwards, nearly fainting at the intensity of the pain
in his forehead.
Petra gasped, and her wand wavered. "James… what have you—" she
exclaimed, and then her voice changed, became very slightly doubtful.
"Father?"
The coat had concealed a portrait in a frame. James could see instantly
that the portrait had been quite severely damaged, almost entirely
destroyed, and then very systematically sewn back together and repainted.
The repainted portions didn't move very well, giving the face a twisted,
maimed look, but James could clearly see who the portrait represented. One
eye stared blankly while the other followed him malevolently, glowing red
with one snakelike, vertical pupil.
Petra's face contorted in involuntary disgust. "You're not my father…
you're… you're…"
"Finish the task!" the portrait hissed furiously. "Kill Lily Potter first!
Then James Potter! Correct my one fatal mistake! It matters not who I am!
All that matters is what was stolen from you, and making those responsible
for it pay! It is the only way to return those you've lost!"
"Correct your mistake?" Petra said, her expression melting slowly into
horrified revelation. "But I thought…"
"My single mistake!" the portrait of Voldemort shrieked urgently.
"Killing James Potter first, leaving the stronger one to protect the boy! It
was old magic, but powerful magic, and I forgot it! She should've died first,
leaving the man and the child to wither before my wand! It was my single,
fatal mistake! I was foolish, yes, but now the circle will be closed! You, my
soul's final vessel, will kill the girl, Lily Potter, and then the boy, James

Potter, and then—" the voice dropped to a seething, greedy hiss, "Harry
Potter will come, and finally—finally—we… will… kill… him!"
"Harry Potter?" Petra whispered.
"The doll was meant to summon him," the portrait said quickly. "The
plan seemed so simple: add a scar to the forehead, thus making it the father
instead of the son. Surely, once Harry Potter's scar reawakened, he would
come, and then he would be ours! But instead, we have lured the boy
James, granting him the phantom scar and the ability to know our plans, and
this, my dear, is even better! I might have foreseen it! My one mistake will
be rectified, the order reversed! Lily Potter dies, then James, and then,
finally, Harry Potter will lie dead at our feet!"
Wonderingly, Petra said, "But my parents… the promise of balance
and perfection… you used me…" Her voice rose, became angry. "You used
me!"
"That is because in your heart, you and I are one and the same!" the
horrible portrait rasped. "Your living soul carries the last vestige of my own,
like a flame in a lantern! We wish for the same things, but from different
directions. In the end, we arrive at the very same place: revenge!"
Petra shook her head sadly. "What have I done? I didn't want revenge,"
she said. "All I wanted was justice…" She turned away from the portrait
and looked back at the woman standing on the ledge of the greenly
flickering pool. Petra's mother smiled back at her sadly and nodded. Petra
hitched a sob. "Justice… and my parents back," she said, her voice
cracking. She raised her wand. "Wingardium Leviosa!"
"NOOO!" the portrait screamed, so loud that it seemed to shake the
walls.
Lily flew up out of the pool, limp as a rag and streaming water. The
shape of Lianna Agnellis fell in on itself, reverting to water. It splashed onto
the stone floor and streamed back into the pool.

"Mum!" Petra screamed, unable to resist reaching out to the departed
shape, tears shining in her eyes. "I'm sorry, Mum! Dad! I'm so sorry! I
couldn't do it!"
James ran forward to the suspended shape of his sister. He reached and
pulled her to him, hugging her. She was as limp and cold as death. Gently,
he laid her on the floor, and placed his ear to her chest.
"Her heart's still beating!" he cried.
"You foolish girl!" the portrait roared, its face distorting grotesquely.
"It is the only way! The part of me in you rebels even now! Resist at your
own peril! Kill the girl! It is not yet too late!"
Petra shook her head slowly, approaching the portrait.
"You can't destroy it, Petra," James called, cradling Lily in his arms.
"Look at it; other people have tried! Portraits can only be destroyed by the
painter, remember?"
Petra was still shaking her head, tears streaking her face but her
expression a mask of stern resolve. "That's not entirely true, James," she
said quietly. With both hands, she gripped the portrait by its frame and lifted
it.
"You are the host of the Gatekeeper!" the high, cold voice of
Voldemort proclaimed urgently. "Even now it awaits you! You can feel its
presence! You have been chosen since the time of Salazar Slytherin
himself! Hundreds of years of prophecy lead to you! You cannot turn aside
from the weight of that destiny! It will crush you! Turn back! All is not yet
lost! It is not too late!"
"There are two people that can destroy a portrait, although the second
person is rarely ever available to do it," Petra said, speaking to James and
ignoring the raving voice. She held the painting out with both hands,
leveling it over the rippling surface of the pool. "A portrait can only be

destroyed by its painter, or if fate allows it, a portrait can be destroyed… by
its subject."
"NOOO!" the portrait shrieked, and James saw the canvas bulge
slightly at the force of it. Petra dropped the portrait and it fell into its
reflection, splashing heavily. The voice of Voldemort's painted visage
continued to scream furiously, bubbling as it bobbed for a moment.
Horribly, the painted face began to run and streak, as if the liquid in the
pool were acid rather than water. Paint bled over the sinking canvas and
mingled with the glowing waters, diluting and thinning, drawing feathery
black tendrils into the depths. The voice gurgled and faded, ran out of
breath, rasped desperately, and then died, leaving only its echo in the
Chamber of Secrets. The portrait frame sank out of sight and was lost
forever in the bottomless pool.
"Is she breathing?" Petra asked, dropping onto her knees next to Lily.
"I don't know!" James exclaimed, hugging her wet, slight body. "She's
so cold!"
Petra nodded and leveled her wand at Lily's throat. "Expelliaqua," she
said firmly.
Several seconds went by, and James was sure the spell hadn't worked,
but then Lily suddenly lurched in his arms. She coughed thickly and
vomited a quantity of water. James helped her into a sitting position,
pounding her gently on the back. She coughed more water and gasped a
great, ragged breath. James was so preoccupied that he barely noticed the
sense of the Gatekeeper fading from the Chamber. Its host had failed the
final test. Petra had not killed for it. Weakened and silent, the Gatekeeper
streamed away.
"James?" Lily croaked, looking blearily at his face. "Where am I?
What happened?"
James shook his head and laughed with relief, tears welling in his eyes.
"You're with me, Lil. That's all that matters."

"Hi, Petra," Lily said weakly, glancing aside. "You were great. I cried
when you drank the Marsh Hag's sleeping poison."
Petra smiled wanly. "Thanks, Lily."
James and Petra helped Lily to her feet and James put his arm around
her, leading her back out of the cave. Petra gathered the Invisibility Cloak
but left the eerie collection of her father's clothing. She looked back only
once, her face flushed and sad.
"Hey, Petra," Albus said gamely as they approached. "You feeling a bit
more yourself, are you?"
Petra nodded but didn't reply. Silently, she knelt next to Albus and
examined his leg.
"You're pretty good at this," James said, watching Petra tear a strip of
ribbon from her dress. Carefully, she used the ribbon and a length of the
broken broom to splint Albus' leg. When she was done, she stood and
pulled Albus to his feet.
"Hey," Albus said, surprised. "That feels loads better. How'd you do
that?"
"It's sort of a talent," Petra answered, averting her eyes. "Besides, it
was just a fracture. You'll be fine in a day or so, once madam Curio has a
look at that leg."
James didn't say anything, but he had the distinct sense that Petra was
lying about Albus' injury. It had certainly been far more than a fracture.
James himself had seen the ugly angle below Albus' knee. Now he was
standing on it with the help of a simple splint. It was as if Petra meant to
repay them for what had happened, but secretly, and using a rather
extraordinary kind of magic.
Petra stood again, gathering the voodoo doll and the Invisibility Cloak.

She looked at them in her hands. "These aren't mine," she said, and then
handed them to James. "I wasn't even aware of the doll until the portrait
mentioned it. I was carrying it the whole time, but somehow I barely knew
it. I'm so sorry James. I don't know what else to say."
James accepted the doll and the Cloak. "You were being deceived," he
answered simply.
Petra nodded morosely and looked out over the chasm. "I was," she
agreed. "But mostly, I was deceiving myself. I can't deny that."
"You've got reasons to be angry and hurt, Petra," James said quietly.
"That wasn't the way to deal with it—Ted wanted me to tell you that—but
there are other ways. The feelings are real. You just have to figure out what
to do with them, right?"
Petra nodded slowly. In the darkness, James saw one more tear track
down her cheek.
"You still in one piece, Lil?" Albus asked his sister, looking her up and
down. "Why are you all wet?"
Lily frowned and looked down at her sopping yellow dress. "Honestly,
I don't have any idea."
"Explanations later," Albus sighed heartily, hopping on his good leg.
"First, how are we going to get back across that?" He gestured toward the
dark chasm.
"Same way I got here," Petra answered softly. "We walk."
Albus grimaced. "Walk? What are you? A ghost?"
"No," Petra replied, almost to herself. "Apparently, I'm the Bloodline
of Lord Voldemort." She stepped forward, walking straight off the edge of
the cliff. James gasped, horrified but unable to look away. Petra didn't fall
however. Her footstep was supported by a small stone platform, rather like

a stepping stone, that had appeared out of nowhere. She looked back, one
foot still on the edge of the chasm.
"Stay close and try very hard not to think about what you're doing,"
she said, and James shivered. She didn't sound entirely confident that it
would work, but what choice did they have? James hesitated, but then he
realized that, for the first time in nearly an hour, the phantom scar on his
forehead didn't hurt. He sighed and moved in behind Petra, herding Lily and
Albus in front of him.
"This is completely insane," Albus commented.
"Don't look down," Petra answered. Without a pause, she began to
walk. Jerkily, Albus, Lily, and James began to follow her. Against all
probability, none of them fell as they moved out over the depths of the
chasm. Neither did the swinging, whooshing blades descend on them.
James' footsteps landed on rough stone steps, each about the size of a dinner
plate, and the moment his heels pulled away from each step, they sank away
quickly, falling into darkness. Dimly, James heard the clank and rattle of
machinery, and he recognized it. It was the same sound he'd heard in his
dreams of this place, only now he knew what it was. Somehow, the stones
were raised mechanically, operated by the sheer magic of Petra's passage.
Perhaps the mechanism could only be summoned by the Bloodline, or
perhaps it merely responded to anyone who knew the proper talisman, as
Petra obviously did. Either way, it definitely helped not to think about what
one was doing or to look down. As James placed his last footstep on the
opposite ledge, collected into the waiting arms of Rose, Ralph, and Zane, he
couldn't resist looking back. The last stepping stone fell away into darkness,
attached to a complicated rigging of struts and coils. It squeaked and rattled
as it retracted, and then it was gone, as if it'd never been there at all.
"Petra!" Rose exclaimed, weak with relief. "Lily! Everyone's all right!"
Zane grinned incredulously. "I thought you both were goners for sure.
What happened?"
"James crashed us," Albus griped, shaking his head. "About broke my

leg off. It's a good thing Petra here is a quick one with a splint."
"Yeah, she's a great one to have around in a medical emergency,"
Ralph agreed, looking at Petra a little worriedly.
"Lily, you're soaked!" Rose exclaimed, laughing and wiping a tear
from her eye. "Here, let me help you." Rose produced her wand and waved
it at Lily in a complicated gesture, pronouncing the proper spell. Hot air
suddenly blew from the tip, drying Lily's dress and making her giggle.
"And what of the Gatekeeper?" Zane asked James as the group made
its way toward the stone stairs and the light beyond.
"Gone," James answered. "I felt it leave."
"For good?"

James shrugged. "It didn't get Petra as its host. She wouldn't kill for it,
not in the end. It doesn't have a foothold here anymore. It's finished."
Zane nodded, frowning a little. "If you say so, mate. Let's get out of
here. This place creeps me out big time."
"Yeah. There's a reason they call it the Chamber of Secrets," Albus
agreed.
James nodded, glancing back. Fervently, he said, "Let's just hope that
was the last of its secrets."

"sAnd that's the story as well as I can tell it," James said, sitting back
in the single chair across from the Headmaster. It was the next day, and the
bright sunlight and birdsong of late morning wafted in through the open
window. "We came up through the girls' second-floor bathroom and Ted led
Tabitha straight here to your office. The rest of us took Lily to the Great
Hall to meet up with Mum. She called Aunt Hermione, Uncle George and
Uncle Ron back from the search and everybody decided to go ahead with
the wrap party after all, although it was more a celebration of Lily's return
by that point."
Merlin nodded slowly, his fingers steepled. He shared a look with
Harry Potter, who stood nearby, arms folded and staring at the floor.
"And Miss Morganstern attended the party?" Merlin asked.
James shook his head. "No, I think she thought it'd be best for her not
to be there. I mean, considering everything."
Harry spoke without raising his head. "It wasn't her fault. She was
being deceived."
"It was not entirely her fault," Merlin corrected grimly. "She was being
deceived, yes, but she was allowing the deception to occur. She has
admitted so herself. The fact that she was able to throw off the deception in
the end is proof that she could have done so all along, had she so chose."
"She is cursed with the last ghost of the soul of Voldemort in her very
blood," Harry said, finally raising his eyes. "He was a wily liar and a master
manipulator. Far greater witches and wizards than Petra Morganstern
succumbed to his deceptions."
Merlin nodded. "And they were also responsible for the choices they
made as a result."
James sat forward in his seat. "What are you saying? You think Petra is

evil just because she was unlucky enough to get chosen for that stupid
Horcrux dagger?"
"No, James," Merlin said gently. "For that, she is truly unfortunate. To
the extent that Petra allows herself to be influenced by that accursed soul,
however, she may still choose to do that which would make her evil indeed.
She has admitted that she was the one that cursed Josephina Bartlett with
the Vertigo Hex, knowing everyone would blame Miss Corsica, all just to
prove to herself that she could do it. She came very close to making the
ultimate evil choice last night, and nearly doomed all of mankind in the
bargain. Had you not been there at exactly the right moment, revealing the
mysterious portrait, all might well have been lost."
"You don't know that," James said, but uncertainly.
"Oh, but I do, James," Merlin said, looking James in the eye. "And for
that, I owe you an apology."
"An apology? Why?"
Merlin sighed deeply. "I was very wrong about you, James Potter." The
big man paused, as if unwilling to elaborate. He was gazing straight ahead,
and James realized that he was looking past him, at something on the rear
wall. James turned and looked over his shoulder. The portrait of Albus
Dumbledore was meeting Merlin's gaze. He smiled slightly and nodded.
Then, barely noticeable, Dumbledore winked at James. James frowned and
turned back to Merlin.
"I've been advised," Merlin said sardonically, "to avoid the temptation
to keep secrets or tell halftruths. Your Albus Dumbledore and I have
discussed the topic at great length, and I admit that, until recently, I did not
much agree with him. Regardless, recent events have shown the validity of
his argument. James Potter, in the presence of your father, I will tell you the
whole of the truth." Merlin sighed again, and then stood. He moved from
behind his desk, passing in front of Harry.
"It is true," he explained. "I was well aware of the possibility that the

entity called the Gatekeeper might follow me back from my long journey
outside of time. Salazar Slytherin made it very clear to me. He hoped and
planned for it, and my heart was in such a state that I did not much care.
'Damn the world,' I thought. 'If the Doombringer is to come, then fate will
save mankind or it will not.' I washed my hands of it. Last year, when I
returned to the world of men, I despised this age. I determined that if the
Gatekeeper had indeed followed me, I would not even use the small power
at my disposal to keep it at bay." Merlin held up a hand, displaying the
glinting black ring. "And then I discovered the presence of the Borleys.
Nuisances, really, the magical equivalent of cockroaches, and yet it proved
to me that things had indeed followed me from the Void. If the Borleys
were here, then surely the Gatekeeper was as well. I determined to capture
the Borleys using the best tool for such a task: the Darkbag, which, as you
know, contains the last earthly shred of pure darkness from the Void. I
imprisoned the Borleys inside it, dozens of them, although at the time I
could not say why I chose to do so; it seemed merely right and responsible.
The truth is that I was coming to know this age, and while there was—and
still is—much of it that I find wretched, I discovered I did not hate it as
much as I'd thought. More important, I had come to care for some of the
people in this age. Chiefly, you, Mr. Potter, and your rambunctious,
irreverent friends.
"As I realized this, I knew I had but one choice: I must do what I could
to rid the world of the Gatekeeper, whose very presence in this sphere was
my responsibility. Having decided that, I came to know that there were
those in this world who knew of the Gatekeeper, and wished to use it. These
were the disciples of Slytherin, who, like him, had fooled themselves into
believing the Gatekeeper could be controlled and used as a hand of
vengeance. I knew of the other half of the Beacon Stone, and sensed that it
was in the possession of these bent individuals. I followed their progress as
they sought the Gatekeeper. I watched and waited, using this very Mirror."
He indicated the Amsera Certh, which stood hooded nearby. "My devices
could sense events of dark magical power, pinpointing their location. When
that happened, I watched in the Mirror. Eventually, I became involved,
travelling to the place where the agents of Slytherin met the Gatekeeper. I
suspect that you witnessed this, Mr. Potter, along with Miss Weasley and
Mr. Deedle. I found them in an unplotted forest, at the tomb of Tom Riddle.

There, the Gatekeeper had revived the memory of Voldemort, forcing it to
speak through the grave statue. The Gatekeeper demanded to be led to the
human who would best serve as its host. The statue told of the boy who had
defeated Voldemort, and the Gatekeeper assumed that this boy, Harry
Potter, would be the logical choice for its host. I sensed it turning toward
you, Harry, homing in on you…" Merlin looked up at James' father. "It
located you without even leaving the grave. It sensed you in the web of
humanity, and determined that it could not have you. I felt it turning you
over in what passes for its mind, felt it dismiss you, not as unworthy, but as
unconquerable. It knew it could never bend you to its purposes."
Harry visibly shivered. "I remember that," he said in a low, wondering
voice. "I was in the Auror offices at the Ministry, talking to Kirkham Wood.
All of a sudden, it was like I was outside myself, looking down on my body
as if I'd been shoved aside while something else shuffled through the
contents of my brain. It only lasted a few seconds, and then suddenly, it was
over. Kirkham hadn't noticed a thing. I decided I'd imagined it, or that I was
just a bit overstressed. But it must have been that… thing… examining me."
Merlin nodded. "It would take a powerful wizard to sense it. The
Gatekeeper numbs its prey so that few ever remember its passing. Surely,
that fact alone was part of why it knew it could never claim you, Harry. So
it moved on. Even as that demented Lucius Malfoy spoke to it, beckoning
for it to join them, telling it that they had prepared a Bloodline to be its
host, I sensed it moving on, past you, Harry, looking further… looking for
you, James."
"Me?" James exclaimed, shocked. "Why?"
"It makes perfect sense if you think about it from the Gatekeeper's
view. The prophecies all claim that the host of the Gatekeeper would be a
child of great loss, or an orphan. It sought out Voldemort, the orphan who
most represented the Gatekeeper's aims, and found him a corpse. Thus, it
logically sought out the one powerful enough to have bested Voldemort, and
found yet another orphan: Harry Potter. He, however, was too strong, and
therefore of no more use to the Gatekeeper than the dead Voldemort. So it
looked just a bit further, to the first-born son of Harry Potter. And it found,

interestingly, that that very boy had recently experienced his own tragedy,
the sudden loss of your grandfather. Further, it sensed that you were in
attendance on the very night that the Gatekeeper had arrived in the earth,
and that you, James Potter, had even helped facilitate its descent."
"But I didn't mean to!" James blurted. "I was trying to stop it!"
Merlin held up a hand. "It matters not to the Gatekeeper. I sensed it
homing in on you, learning of you, all in that moment in the graveyard,
even as Lucius Malfoy was speaking to it. I sensed you in its thoughts,
James, and that is when I stepped out into the open, to distract it. I called to
the Gatekeeper, identifying myself as the bearer of the Beacon Stone. It
remembered me from my time in the Void. The first thing it did was ask for
you, James. I told it as sternly as I could that you knew nothing of it, that
you would never consent to be its host. But it laughed. It told me that you
had already sought it out, and that you were watching at that very moment.
Lucius Malfoy looked and saw you, reflected in the window of an
abandoned shack nearby. He pointed at you, and the Gatekeeper smiled. It
had known you'd been watching from the moment it turned its attention to
finding you, James. I turned and saw your reflection for myself. I knew I
had to get back, to warn you, but you closed the Focusing Book, shutting
me out. It took me much of a day to get back to the castle by other methods,
and by then, I had determined a rather different opinion of you, I am
afraid."
"You'd decided I was on the Gatekeeper's side?" James asked,
perplexed.
"Not consciously," Merlin answered. "No more than Petra Morganstern
was on the Gatekeeper's side. I decided you were being manipulated by it,
and by your own desires. I regret to admit this, James, but I feared that your
desire to be like your father was being exploited, used by the Gatekeeper
and the forces of chaos. When your mother's Howler went off, telling us all
that she believed you'd stolen the Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder's
Map, it further convinced me that you were, in fact, working toward the
Gatekeeper's ends. I decided to watch and to wait, hoping that I was wrong
about you. And then, when your own sister went missing on the night of the

play, I knew that it was the moment of truth. I could scarcely believe you'd
harm her, but those in the thrall of deception have done even worse things
than murder their sisters. I planned to take you away from the school,
removing you from whatever plan the Gatekeeper had for you. You foiled
me, of course, by the simple expedient of being young and quick. Even
then, I could have taken you had I truly wished to. In my deepest heart,
however, I had decided to trust you—and fate. It was my own trial of the
cord, much like your test, James, in the cave of my cache. You chose to
hold onto the golden cord even though letting go would have been far
easier. Thus, I chose to hold onto the one thin cord of trust in you as well. If
I did so foolishly, then the world would not last long enough to blame me.
As it turns out, however, that moment of trust was indeed wise. In fact, I
believe it saved us all."
James blew out a sigh. "Wow. So that was why you were so secretive
and scary that day in your office."
"The portrait told me it was a mistake," Merlin admitted, glancing
aside. "Dumbledore did not approve of my attitude toward you, and told me
so upon your departure."
From the wall behind James, Dumbledore's voice spoke. "I was
nothing if not respectful, Merlinus. But yes, I did warn you that you
doubted the boy at your own peril."
Merlin nodded. "Yes, you made your point quite clear, as I recall."
"I am cursed with the burden of helping those who've succeeded me to
not make the same mistakes I did," Dumbledore said, looking at Merlin,
then Harry. "I myself only learned these lessons mere days before my death.
Too late to make much of a difference, although I did what little I could."
Harry nodded, unsmiling. "So what is to be done with Petra
Morganstern, then?"
Merlin shrugged, returning to his desk. "She is guilty of possession of
stolen property in the form of the Invisibility Cloak and kidnapping Lily

Potter. As Head Auror, the owner of the Cloak, and the girl's father, Harry
Potter, I might ask you the same thing."
Harry thought seriously for a long moment. Finally, he looked at
James. "I won't be pressing any charges," he said. "James, do you agree?"
James nodded. "She didn't know what she was doing, Dad. And when I
showed her how she was being deceived, she turned things around really
quickly. She doesn't want to hurt anyone."
"Be very aware of what you are doing, my friends," Merlin said
quietly. "Miss Morganstern is a very complicated young woman."
"But she isn't evil," James said emphatically.
"No more than you are, James, or your father, or I myself. And yet I, at
least, have wrought great evil, all in the name of love. We are all capable of
evil, depending on the choices we make and the philosophies we embrace.
The greater the potential for good in any of us, the greater the opposite
potential for wickedness. Miss Morganstern has, to say the very least, great,
great potential. The only question is how she will choose to invest it."
"But she did the right thing," Harry said. "In my experience, those who
choose to do right usually get addicted to it. The soul of Voldemort has a
toe-hold in her, yes; she can't help that. But she has proven that it isn't
enough to rule her."
"It is enough to divide her," Merlin answered. "And she will never
conquer that one small part of her that belongs to him. It will always be
there, wheedling, poisoning, tempting, lying. Further, his power is her
power. She has shown that she uses that power—granted, for good, so far,
such as in healing Albus' leg—but how long will she be able to control it?
Even now, she leaves these walls to return to a loveless and bitter life. She
has denied herself the return of her own parents so that Lily and you, James,
might live. Meanwhile, she watches you go home to loving parents and a
life she can only dream of. Don't think that, despite her actions, she will not
lie awake on cold, lonely nights, pining hopelessly for her dead parents, and

wondering, wondering, if on that fateful night in the Chamber of Secrets
she made the wrong choice."
James shook his head, not wanting to believe it. "She'd never think
that. Petra is good."
"She wants to be good," Merlin agreed. "I will grant you that, James.
Let us hope that that is enough."
Harry approached James and put his hand on his son's shoulder.
"Scorpius has agreed to help us locate his Grandfather Lucius. He's actually
a little more enthusiastic about it than I'm comfortable with, to tell you the
truth, but his grandfather's lies and manipulations have turned the boy into
quite a valuable ally for us. Still," he said, turning his attention to Merlin,
"what of Tabitha Corsica? She's returned the map. Apart from Stunning
Ralph, she hasn't technically done anything wrong whatsoever, despite her
best efforts. I have no jurisdiction over her at all."
"Leave her to me," Merlin replied, sitting down at his desk again. "She
is not so far gone that she cannot be helped. I have known someone like
her."
"You're kidding!" James said, getting to his feet as his father prepared
to leave. "You think Petra's going to go all Dark Lord on us, but you think
there's hope for Corsica just because you've 'known someone like her'?"
Merlin looked up at James, his brow lowered. "Perhaps I misspoke,"
he said, his voice rumbling. "What I meant to say was I have been someone
like her."
James stared at the Headmaster, frowning in consternation, but Harry
steered him away with his hand. "Come on, son," he said, smiling a little.
"The Headmaster has a lot to do. I saw your performance on the
Omnioculars, by the way. You're quite the little actor. Makes me wonder
about the time you told me you had nothing to do with that broken clock in
the parlor, eh?"

James changed the subject as quickly as he could. "So are you heading
home right away?"
"No, actually," Harry answered, closing Merlin's door. "I'm going to
check in on Albus down in the Slytherin quarters. And then I, er, owe
someone a visit, apparently."
James began to tromp down the spiral staircase. "Who's that?"
"Moaning Myrtle," his dad sighed, smiling. "Rose insisted. She said
she promised. Just come and get me if I'm in there for more than an hour, all
right?"

20. THE LONG RIDE HOME
The last week of school went by as if blown by a hard wind. Zane
stayed over, spending a night both with James and Ralph in their
dormitories, sleeping on cots provided by the house-elves, and staying the
rest of the time in his old house dormitory. The Ravenclaws were happy to
see him, and Horace Birch proudly proclaimed him a lifelong Ravenclaw
"despite the fact you're a ruddy Yank and a coffee drinker, even though
everybody knows all true Ravenclaws live on tea and Butterbeer."
To James' delight, a review of The Triumvirate appeared in the Daily
Prophet, carefully glossing over the kidnapping of Lily as 'an unfortunate

scare involving a temporarily lost child' since she had turned up later that
evening apparently unhurt and perfectly cheerful. The review had called the
play a 'surprisingly inventive and entertaining bit of academic theatre'
despite the somewhat controversial Muggle production techniques
implemented by the director, Muggle Studies professor Tina Grenadine
Curry. This was blithely forgiven when the reporter had discovered that the
Muggle generators, which were purportedly operating the stage lights, were
running rather mysteriously without a drop of petrol in them, therefore
rendering the nonmagical claims of the production completely moot.
"Here we go," Rose said, pointing at the newspaper at breakfast on the
last day of school. "'James Sirius Potter, portraying the part of the beloved
Treus, proved that neither youth nor inexperience can prevent a delightful
performance in someone so well-trained and obviously inspired. Young Mr.
Potter's surprising Thespian talent leads this reporter to muse that, in his
case, the apple certainly did not fall far from the tree, even if it did perhaps
fall in an entirely different vocational orchard.'"
"That's the fifth time you've read that," James said, grinning and redfaced.
"Not that you mind," Zane said, nudging his friend.
Ralph asked, "What's it mean about James falling down in a different
orchard?"
"It means James is as talented as his father," Rose proclaimed, folding
the paper, "Just in some quite different ways. No one could ever imagine
Harry Potter performing in a play, could they?"
"I suppose not," James agreed, still grinning sheepishly. "But I think
that's about enough acting for me."
Zane shook his head. "You say that now, but you just wait. Pretty soon,
you'll start missing the spotlight. You know, my dad works in the Muggle
film industry. He could probably hook you up with a part in a movie.

There's even talk of remaking the movies based on that magical book series.
You'd be perfect for it!"
"Not a chance," James insisted, but he was drowned out by the chorus
of enthusiastic agreement. He decided not to fight it, and in the end,
everyone agreed that, in fact, Albus would probably better fit the part,
despite the fact that he couldn't act as well as James.
"I'd do it though," Albus said seriously. "I could even do my own
spells! Would they allow that, you think?"
Zane shook his head as everyone laughed.
That night, James enlisted Zane's help in removing the lightning bolt
scar from his voodoo doll. Carefully, Zane used his wand to magically
scrub the marking from the tiny burlap forehead. Strangely, James could
feel the progress of it. It tingled, and the tingle diminished as the scar
vanished. Finally, Zane handed James the doll, nodding at a job well done.
"Clean as the wind-driven snow," he proclaimed.
James examined it. Sure enough, there was no sign that the scar
marking had ever been there. He wrapped the doll in a cloth and put it in the
bottom of his trunk. He wasn't sure what he would do with it now that he
knew it could be used rather dangerously, but he suspected he would simply
give it back to his mum. Now that she knew to keep an eye on it, he felt
confident that there was no one who'd take better care of it.
At dinner on the last day of school, Gryffindor was awarded the House
Cup, primarily because of late points added to their score by Merlin for
James and Petra's performance in the play. James was very happy about the
award, and as the Gryffindor table exploded into applause, congratulating
James and Petra, he felt, perhaps for the first time, that he was living up to
his father's legend as a Gryffindor. At the end of the Gryffindor table,
floating uncertainly but with a nervous smile on his face, the ghost of
Cedric Diggory waved at him. The Grey Lady wafted next to him, her pale
face inscrutable but apparently content.

For the evening's entertainment, the Hufflepuffs put on a very amusing
puppet show rendition of The Triumvirate, making affectionate fun of
everyone involved. James laughed until tears ran from his eyes. When he
looked to share the joke with Petra, however, her seat was empty. He didn't
see her at all the rest of the night.
Finally, the next morning, it was time for the trip home. Zane had his
small bag packed, whistling lightly as James lugged his trunk out to the
steps.
"It'll be great to ride the train again," Zane said, smiling happily. "I
miss that old cart lady. She wasn't there when I rode into Hogsmeade with
your mum, you know that? Apparently, she only works the official
Hogwarts Express runs. Better profit margin, I guess."
"Hmph," James said, plopping onto his trunk. "I didn't know that."
"I bet she'll be there more often, though, once they open up the new
route. I saw the place where they're expanding the track through the
mountains. It'll connect with some new wizarding village over on the other
side of some gorge. I can't remember the name of the gorge or the village,
but your mum said once they finish the track, it'll save travelers loads of
commute time and Floo powder. I bet the cart lady'll have a lot more
customers then."
"I'm sure she'd be glad you were so concerned for her welfare," James
said, rolling his eyes.
"I can't help it," Zane agreed. "I'm just a caring kind of guy. Oh yeah,
that reminds me, I think I figured out the secret of Tabitha's crazy broom."
James perked up. "Yeah? What was it?"
Zane reached into his jeans pocket and pulled out a small envelope.
"Albus let me take a look at the bit of the broom he'd been using as a splint.

I broke it open and Gennifer and Horace helped me do some tests on it.
Look." He handed the envelope to James.
James thumbed it open and peered inside. It contained a tiny shred of
black fabric.
"I wouldn't touch it," Zane said. "I did accidentally, and it still feels
pretty oogie."
"'Oogie'?" James said, handing the envelope back to Zane.
"Sorry. Technical term I picked up from Raphael back home. Hinky.
Creepified. Completely off the spook-o-meter."
"I get the picture," James sighed. "But what is it?"
Zane plopped down next to James on his trunk. "Remember last year
when you explained corked brooms to me?"
James nodded. "Sure. When a Quidditch player threads something
magical into their broomstick, basically turning it into a big giant wand."
"Yeah, well, we weren't so far-off about Corsica's," Zane replied. "We
thought it was corked because it was Merlin's staff, but obviously, that was
a red herring. It was corked because it contained a big, long strip off the
robe of a Dementor."
"A Dementor?" James exclaimed, turning to look at Zane. "How's that
even possible?"
Zane shrugged easily. "Beats me, but there's no question about it.
Maybe Corsica's people are friendly enough with those things that they
were able to get a hand-me-down. After all, you said the Dementors were
loyal to Voldy and his pals."
"They weren't so much loyal to him as they were evil like him, but
still… you could be right."

"It checks out," Zane nodded. "If what Merlin told you is true,
Dementors are the same stock as the Borleys. They come from outside of
time, and can manipulate it a little. That's pretty much what Tabitha's broom
seemed to do, wasn't it? It knew just enough of the future to know where it
needed to be. Fortunately for you and Albus, it took on the purpose of its
owner."
"Wow," James breathed, looking at the envelope in Zane's hand. "I
know that thing saved Albus' and my life, but still, I have to say I'm glad it
got destroyed. Corked with a Dementor's robe! That's super creepy."
"Oogie, even," Zane agreed, pocketing the envelope. "Albus said I
could keep this. I'm going to give it to Chancellor Franklyn when I get
home so he can study it. I bet I get brownie points from here to doomsday
for it!"
James shook his head, smiling at his friend's irrepressible temerity.
Shortly thereafter, Ralph, Rose, and Albus dragged their trunks out to
the step as well, awaiting Hagrid's carriage to the station. James smiled in
the sunlight. It was going to be a fun trip home.

"You still haven't really told us what happened on the other side of the
chasm," Ralph said as the train picked up speed, leaving Hogsmeade
station. "I mean, what was the real deal with Petra anyway? Was she under
the Imperius Curse or something?"
James shook his head. "No, no, nothing like that. She was being

deceived. She had no idea that she was the Bloodline of Voldemort. Lucius
Malfoy arranged for the Invisibility Cloak, my voodoo doll, and the portrait
of Voldemort to be planted into the box of her father's things before it ever
left Azkaban. She was blinded to the portrait and doll, tricked by the little
part of Voldemort in her blood. Later, when she heard the voice of the
portrait in the cave, she thought it was the voice of her dead father. It
sounds mad, but I think she was feeling a little mad anyway after finding
out all that stuff about her mum and dad."
"So none of the things we saw in the Pensieve were about Tabitha after
all, right?" Ralph said. "All those memories were about Petra. Scorpius let
us believe Tabitha was the Bloodline because that's what his grandfather
told him to do, just to keep us distracted from the real thing; is that it?"
"I don't care what you all say," Albus said determinedly, "that little
squid is ten kinds of trouble. He just better stay out of my way."
Rose closed the book on her lap and looked up. "I admit he started out
pretty awful, what with stealing the Cloak, map, and doll, and then lying to
us about the Bloodline, but all of that was on his grandfather's orders. You
can't really blame him for wanting to live up to the legacy of his family; he
didn't know any better. Besides, even by the time he was showing us the
memories in the Pensieve, he was beginning to have doubts about his
grandfather's plan. That's why he didn't actually say Tabitha's name. He was
halfway hoping we'd figure out it was Petra after all."
"And he did do the right thing in the end," James added. "He never
knew that hurting Lily was part of the plan. When Lily was kidnapped, he
totally gave up his grandfather and Tabitha. We'd never have learned the
truth about Petra if Scorpius hadn't been there with us in the bathroom."
"I think both of you have crushes on him," Albus said dourly. "I'm not
falling for that 'I'm just a poor misguided bad boy' bit. Someday, he and I
are going to finish what we started on the train ride here."
"I'd be careful, Albus," Zane commented, raising his eyebrows. "I saw

Scorpius at the last Defence Club meeting and he's gotten pretty slick with
that Artis Decerto stuff. He was waxin' on and waxin' off like a boy ninja."
Albus rolled his eyes. "Whatever."
Ralph stood up and peered out the compartment door. "Hey, that
reminds me: which direction are Louis and Victoire in?" he asked, peering
up and down the train corridor. "Louis has a book on Middle Eastern
defensive magic he said I could borrow over the summer."
"Victoire stayed behind," Rose answered. "She's staying with George
and Ted in Hogsmeade until George and Angelina's wedding. And I usually
try my best not to know where Louis is."
Ralph stretched and said, "I'm going to go walk a bit and try to find
him. Who's coming?"
"I'm in," James answered, standing. "I'm going to fall asleep if I stay
here. We shouldn't have stayed up so late playing Winkles and Augers last
night."
"I'm going to ask the cart lady about her working hours," Zane
interjected, opening the compartment door.
"Louis has a book on magical martial arts?" Rose asked Ralph as the
five of them filed out into the corridor.
"He's really gotten into it," Ralph nodded. "Posters all over his
dormitory of the Harriers and famous wizard martial artists and stuff. He
even asked his mum to order him one of those hoods with the eye slits in it
so he can look all mysterious."
"Our Louis?" Albus exclaimed, stifling a grin. "I should have known
there was a repressed fighter buried under all that stuffed shirt."
"Debellows said he's got some natural talent," Ralph said, shrugging.
"Of course, he said the same thing about you, James."

"And I got top marks on my Wizlit essay," Rose said pointedly,
steering the conversation away from Professor Debellows, for whom she
still had little respect. "Professor Revalvier said my insight on the golden
age of wizarding literature was—"
James suddenly stopped in the aisle, forcing everyone to pile up
behind him.
"Ow! Ralph, get off my toe, you bloody dump truck!" Albus cried.
"What gives?"
"Do you see it?" James whispered urgently, pointing. Everyone
stopped and craned their heads, looking in the direction James was pointing.
"What are we looking for?" Zane asked after a moment.
Rose said, "I don't see anythi—"
"There!" Albus interrupted, pointing over Zane's shoulder.
Something moved inside the network of flickering shadows near the
end of the corridor.
"It's like a living shadow," Ralph said.
"It's the last Borley!" Albus declared, pushing past James. "And he's
mine!"
"No magic!" James commanded. "Remember? That's how it grew last
time!"
The Borley capered in moving shadows as the train pushed through the
forest. It teased and cartwheeled, as if begging to be hexed. Suddenly, the
door at the end of the corridor slid open, letting in the noise of the rushing
wind and clacking wheels. All five students cried out in warning, stumbling

over each other, but the Borley took advantage of the opening and leapt
through the door just as it was sliding shut again.
"How very curious," the newcomer said in a deep voice. James looked
up and rolled his eyes. It was Merlin, wearing his travelling cloak, his staff
at his side.
"Merli—er, Headmaster!" Rose exclaimed, pushing forward. "It just
went that way!"
"The Borley!" James added hastily. "The last one! It must have been
on the train this whole time!"
Merlin's face darkened slightly. "We mustn't take any chances this
time, my friends. I will follow it and corral it. Mr. Potter, you know what
the Darkbag looks like, do you not? It is in my compartment, two cars
behind you, number six. It will allow you inside. The trunk beneath the seat
will open with this key. Meet us as soon as you can." The big man produced
a golden key on a long loop of chain and held it out to James. James took it,
feeling rather important.
"Quickly, Mr. Potter," Merlin prodded. "We haven't a moment to
spare."
James turned on his heel and ran back the way they'd come, fighting
the disorienting sensation of running full out in a moving, swaying train. He
passed through two connectors and came to the compartment marked
number six. The windows were smoked, but the door was unlocked. James
entered quickly and saw the Headmaster's trunk peeking out from beneath
the left side bench. He dropped to his knees and heaved it into the light. The
small golden key fit snugly in the lock and turned with a minute click.
When James threw the trunk open, he was surprised to see that the Darkbag
was the only thing inside it, folded neatly on the wooden floor of the trunk.
Of course, he realized, this was one of those magical trunks which opened
onto different contents depending on what key you unlocked it with.
Considering the great importance and potential danger of the Darkbag,
which imprisoned the rest of the starving Borleys inside its seamless dark,

James felt particularly honored to have been asked to retrieve it. He touched
it a little fearfully, remembering Merlin's warnings about it, but it felt
perfectly normal. It was simply a large, heavy, black cloth bag, cinched shut
with a golden cord and bearing a long shoulder strap on the top. Having
assured himself that the Darkbag was relatively safe to hold, James slung it
around his neck and over his shoulder, wearing it like a backpack. He
slammed the trunk, hung the key around his neck on its fine chain, and ran
back toward the front of the train.
He was rather out of breath by the time he found everyone again. They
were gathered at the head of the first car, staring hard at the door. Merlin
looked up as James entered. His face was grim, but James thought he could
sense some enjoyment in the big man's expression; the Headmaster was
pleasuring in the hunt.
"We chased it here," Zane said, grinning. "It slipped right through the
crack in the door, but the next car is the coal car. End of the line!"
"Miss Weasley," Merlin said, turning to her, "you will open the door on
my mark. Mr. Deedle, your wand has rather unique properties, as you know.
If the Borley manages to get past me, then you, and only you, may attempt
to Stun it. Your spell will not halt it but will distract and attract it, giving me
the time I need. I will place the Borley in a trance. Then, Mr. Potter, I will
require the Darkbag."
Ralph gulped audibly, producing his huge wand.
"Got it," Rose said, a little breathlessly. James nodded understanding.
Albus stood back. "Last time, it was standing on the metal bit that
holds the cars together," he explained. "So aim low."
"Thank you," Merlin nodded, smiling slightly.
Rose gripped the door handle and everyone took a deep breath. Merlin
nodded at her and she pulled, jerking the door all the way open and letting
in a push of warm, noisy air. James squinted in the barreling wind and

smoke, and then gasped, his stomach plummeting. Merlin slowly took a
step back, spreading his arms to keep everyone behind him.
"I may not know what I'm talking about here," Zane said weakly, his
eyes bulging, "but I'm pretty sure those aren't Borleys."
In fact, the Borley was exactly where they'd expected it to be. It
danced on the huge iron knuckle that connected the train to the coal car,
teasing them. Over it, however, darkening the air all around the coal car,
swarming like a malignant living cloud, were dozens—perhaps hundreds—
of Dementors.
"It's the entire hive!" James called over the sound of the clacking
wheels and rushing wind. "All the way from London! Why are they here?"
Merlin didn't take his eyes from the horrible swarm. "I think," he said
slowly, "the answer to that question is all too clear."
Rose looked from Merlin to the open, howling doorway. "The
Gatekeeper is up there," she said, nodding toward the engine, which was
just visible over the length of the coal car and the swarming Dementors.
Suddenly, the train's whistle blew, shrieking a long, deafening note.
Rose clapped her hands to her ears and winced. Simultaneously, the engine
seemed to lurch forward, picking up speed. James stumbled as the train
rounded a turn, rushing through it at dangerously high speed.
"Look!" Zane called, gripping the open doorway and pointing. James
peered aside, looking through the gap between the cars. Trees whipped past
in a blur, and then something else flickered past: wooden signs and piles of
gravel and railroad ties.
"It's the new extension!" Zane yelled, his face very pale.
"The new what?" Rose cried, shaking her head.
"Didn't you read the sign?" he called, exasperated. "It's the new track

extension over the Sparrowhawk Gorge! We're off the main track! We've
been switched onto the new extension!"
"Don't tell me," Ralph yelled, slumping. "The extension's not finished
yet, is it?"
"No! The bridge over the gorge is hardly half-done yet! It's not
supposed to be completed until next year!"
Albus nodded seriously. "This is bad. Very bad."
Merlin stepped forward, his face determined and his staff held before
him. The wind whipped his robes and streamed through his hair and beard.
Instantly, the cloud of Dementors condensed, collapsing onto the doorway
and blocking it. The students stumbled backwards, terrified and falling over
each other. The Dementors hissed and roared, and James felt his blood chill
at the sound of it. He'd never known Dementors could speak.
The boyyy…, they hissed in unison, and their voices were horrid,
buzzing like hornet wings. James Sirius Potter… the boyyy mussst
commme…
Merlin had not stepped back in the face of the angry swarm. Now,
however, he turned slightly, looking back at James over his shoulder. His
face was cold, his eyes like diamond chips.
"It would appear you are being summoned," he said, his voice carrying
easily over the noise and wind.
"No!" James cried. "I don't want anything to do with that thing!"
"The Gatekeeper believes differently," Merlin replied. "And it is going
to kill everyone on this train if you do not meet its summons."
James shook his head adamantly. "I can't face that thing alone!" he
exclaimed, terrified.

"You will not be alone," Merlin answered, smiling humorlessly. "I will
be accompanying you."
James looked into the sorcerer's face. What he saw there was complete
confidence and determination. The Dementors may try to stop Merlin, but
they would not succeed. James nodded slowly and stood up.
As he stepped tentatively toward the open doorway, the cloud of
Dementors backed away, allowing him room. They swarmed feverishly, and
the sight of them made James shiver.
"Don't!" Rose called, grabbing James' sleeve. "There's got to be
another way! You don't have to do it, James!"
James shook his head. "I think I do, Rose. It'll be all right."
"No!" she cried. "You're daft! You can't defeat something like that!"
James shrugged. "I have to try at least."
Zane put his hand on Rose's shoulder and Albus reached for her hand.
"Don't do anything stupid, big brother!" Albus called.
"Here!" Ralph suddenly yelled, pushing forward. He held his wand out
to James, handle-first.
James shook his head. "No, Ralph, that's yours! I couldn't!"
"Shut up, James!" Ralph said, and James was shocked to see the
ferocity in the boy's eyes. "Merlin's right! My wand has unique powers!
You might need the boost! You're not going to keep it anyway. I'm lending
it to you. Understand?"
James nodded solemnly and accepted Ralph's huge wand. "I'll give it
back to you when I return," he agreed.

Nowww…, the Dementors hissed in their awful monotone. James
Sirius Potter…
"Keep your cowls on," James muttered nervously, pushing into the
wind and blasting cinders. The rear of the coal car bore an iron ladder.
James began to climb it, fighting both the howling air and streaming smoke
from the engine. Beneath him, the track blurred past, and the clack of the
wheels was loud enough to hurt his ears. Before Merlin could move to
follow him, however, James decided to try the bravest thing he could think
of. He took out Ralph's wand and pointed it at the great iron knuckle that
connected the coal car to the rest of the train.
"Convulsis!" he called, attempting the destroying spell he had last seen
Rowena Ravenclaw use on the painting in Salazar Slytherin's quarters. The
spell struck the knuckle and exploded brightly. When the sparks cleared,
however, James could see that it had had no effect on the knuckle.
"A worthy attempt," Merlin called, glancing up at James. "But the
Gatekeeper has foreseen such measures."
James nodded, disheartened, and continued to climb the ladder. The
Dementors swirled around him but kept their distance. James scrambled
over the lip of the coal car and dropped onto the irregular pile of coal
inside.
Behind him, he heard Merlin's voice call out firmly, "Chrea
Patronym!"
There was a burst of silvery light and the swarm of Dementors broke
apart, repelled by the force of the glare. James glanced back and saw Merlin
clambering onto the pile of coal behind him, his staff glowing greenly in his
hand. In front of Merlin, standing between him and James, was a large,
ghostly jackal. The silvery light pulsed from it, and it bore its shining teeth
in a silent snarl, forcing the Dementors back. James felt a little better seeing
Merlin's ferocious Patronus, and he wasn't surprised at the form it had
taken. He turned back and slowly began to force his way along the length of

the coal car, struggling over the rough chunks of black coal. Trees whipped
past, and James could tell that this length of track was unfamiliar. He had
no idea how long they had until the train met the unfinished bridge. Panic
tried to grip him, but James fought it back, concentrating on the task at
hand.
Finally, he met the other end of the coal car and clambered through an
open iron door. A shovel rattled on the small platform behind the engine,
but there was no one in sight. Merlin climbed through the iron door behind
James, but his Patronus jumped over the front of the coal car, landing on the
platform with its hackles raised. The noise of the engine made it almost too
loud to speak. Merlin nodded toward the closed door in the rear of the
engine. It was painted bright red, just like the rest of the engine. Across it,
in gold letters, were the words 'Hogwarts Express Engineers Only'.
James reached for the door handle and heaved it open. It was pitch
dark inside the engine compartment. James took a deep breath, steeled
himself on the swaying, speeding platform, and stepped into the waiting
darkness.
The noise and wind vanished instantly. There was no sense of speed or
motion at all. Nor did the space inside the engine feel hot or confined, as
James had expected. It felt huge, silent, and eerily cool.
"James," a voice said comfortably, "how good of you to come."
James glanced around, but he couldn't see anyone. There was no sign
of Merlin, or anything else for that matter. The space seemed completely
dark and featureless but for a pool of dim light that James stood in. "Where
am I?" he asked, gathering his wits. "Where's Merlin?"
"He's near," the voice answered cryptically. "Interesting fellow,
Merlinus, don't you think? He was the first human I ever met, you know.
His fear tastes particularly piquant." The voice sighed in a selfsatisfied
manner. "As far as where you are, that's a rather more difficult question to
answer. I didn't want you to be overly concerned about your friends, so I
took us… away. Outside of time. Outside of… well, everything, really."

"Where are you?" James demanded, glancing around.
"Oh, I keep forgetting," the voice said, laughing lightly. "You humans
don't much like the whole 'godlike voice out of nowhere' sensation, do you?
I'm right here."
On the word here, the voice localized. James turned toward the sound
and saw a figure standing before him. It was exactly the same figure he'd
seen in Merlin's Magic Mirror, right down to the tattered robe with no feet
and the dark, featureless hood. James scrambled back from it, gasping.
"I apologize again," the figure said, reaching up. "Perhaps this is a bit
better."
The figure of the Gatekeeper touched its hood and then swept it back.
James was afraid to look but couldn't help himself. He winced at the
revealed shape, and then frowned a little.
"You're the Gatekeeper?" he asked, stepping forward again. "You look
a little like… like my dad. But not exactly."
"This isn't how I truly look, of course," the figure said offhandedly.
"I'm still learning about humans, I admit, but I've come to understand the
sorts of shapes you find acceptable." The Gatekeeper smiled disarmingly.
"You expected something awful, I presume? A thousand eyes and a long,
forked tail? That sort of thing?"
James nodded, and then shook his head. "I don't know what I expected.
It doesn't matter, really. What do you want?"
"Right down to business," the Gatekeeper said, nodding curtly, still
smiling. "That's what I respect about you, James Sirius Potter. No
sentimentals. I'll tell you what I want. I want to help you."
James shook his head. "I'm not buying that. You're a liar. You want me

to be your host so you can stay here on the earth and destroy everything.
I've learned all about you. You just want to use me."
"Alas," the Gatekeeper said, frowning a little, "put like that, it sounds
rather awful, doesn't it? On the surface of it, I mean."
"Well…," James said, a little uncertainly, "yeah, it does."
The Gatekeeper nodded, pressing its lips together. "I guess that settles
it, then. You say no to me, I get no human host. Shortly, I'll lose my footing
on this earthly plane and be forced back to the Void. You win." The figure
shrugged, as if mildly disappointed.
"Yeah…," James agreed tentatively, "I guess that's pretty much it."
"In that case, do you mind if we just chat for a moment, James?
There's no harm in that, is there?"
"Er, I guess not."
"You fancy Miss Morganstern, don't you?" the Gatekeeper said,
arching an eyebrow at James and winking. "I don't blame you. Really, I
don't. Delightful girl. She and I were supposed to be… very close. I have to
admit, though, that I had my doubts about her. Your dead Voldemort has his
rather devoted followers, and they insisted she was the one for me, but I
suspected differently. And, of course, I was right. I'm always right, James.
That's not pride talking, mind you. Uncertainty is the hallmark of timebound creatures. I see history as an open book, from start to finish. I know
how things are going to happen because, metaphorically speaking, I've
already skipped to the last page." The Gatekeeper sighed indulgently. "Let
me ask you something, James: do you know who I really am?" it asked,
tilting its head.
"You're the Gatekeeper," James answered carefully. "You're evil."
"Yes, yes," the figure said, waving a hand impatiently. "But besides all

of that. I have loads of names other than that one, you know. There is one
that I am particularly fond of. I think it'll amuse you."
James shook his head, feeling increasingly cautious. "I don't know
what you mean."
"Then let me illuminate you, James," the Gatekeeper said, suddenly
approaching James and dropping to one knee. It looked closely at him, its
eyes sparkling mischievously. "James, my boy, do you remember the story?
The one your friend Ralph regaled you with in Wizard Literature class? You
do, don't you?"
James nodded, perplexed. "Sure, but I don't see…"
"You don't see because you don't look!" the Gatekeeper interrupted. It
lowered its voice and said in a conspiratorial whisper, "I, James, am the
King of the Cats!"
James backed away as fear tingled up his back.
"Think about it," the Gatekeeper insisted, standing again and following
him. "I sit at the base of the steps, Lord Guardian of the doorway between
the living and the dead! I determine who passes through the Void, who
proceeds into the Everlasting! And, I might add, I am also the Lord of…
who comes back!"
The Gatekeeper deftly snapped its fingers. Another pool of light
appeared and James couldn't help glancing at it. A figure was climbing to
its feet in the pool of light, looking around in surprise and wonder. James
gasped and his heart leapt.
"Grandfather…," he said, taking a step forward.
"James!" Arthur Weasley said, laughing a little. "What are you doing
at the Ministry? And what in the world was I doing on the floor? I must
have tripped, clumsy me."

"Grandfather!" James exclaimed, moving to run to him, but the
Gatekeeper placed a hand on James' shoulder, stopping him.
"You cannot touch him, James," the Gatekeeper said sorrowfully. "Not
yet. Perhaps in time."
"But how…," James cried.
Arthur Weasley tilted his head and smiled crookedly at James. "Is this
part of your grandmother's secret design?" he asked. "It is, isn't it? I know
she's been planning some sort of surprise party. She's never been able to
fool me, although I let her believe she can, the dear. Where's everyone
else?"
"He cannot see me," the Gatekeeper said, looking back at Arthur.
"Those that pass through never do."
"Are… are you real?" James stammered, giddy excitement welling
inside him. "Is it really you, Grandfather?"
"What kind of question is that, James?" Arthur said, looking around.
"Where are we, anyway? This isn't the Ministry after all. I have to admit,
I'm rather dumbfounded. Did I get off at the wrong grate on the Floo
Network?"
"No, Grandfather!" James cried. "You're… you had a—"
"Shh," the Gatekeeper said. "Don't tell him."
"Why are you doing this?" James suddenly demanded, looking up at
the robed entity before him. "That can't really be my grandfather! He's
dead!"
"Death is just a doorway," the Gatekeeper replied, shrugging. "You
never knew that it was a two-way door. You love your grandfather, do you
not?"

"What would you know about that?" James demanded, fighting tears
of frustration and anger.
"I admit the concept is foreign to me," the entity answered, "but I have
learned enough of humans to know it is of great power to you. You'd have
your grandfather back if you could, wouldn't you?"
James bit his lip, his emotions raging. In the second pool of light,
Arthur was patting his pockets distractedly, as if looking for something.
"Wrong address," he muttered, laughing a little nervously. "Where'd I put
that packet of emergency Floo powder? Molly always insists I carry it.
She'll crow for days about the fact that I finally needed it."
"Yes!" James blurted, tears welling in his eyes. "I love my grandfather.
But he's gone! You can't trick me! I won't do what you ask even if it means
getting him back!"
"Selfless," the Gatekeeper said seriously, nodding. "A very respectable
trait. I admire it, I really do." It raised its hand and snapped its fingers
again.
A third pool of light appeared. James turned to look, blinking through
a blur of tears. A figure seemed to stumble backwards into the light. He was
tall and thin, wearing dark robes; his long black hair was ratty and matted
with sweat. He caught his balance and spun on the spot, his wand out. Wild
eyes spotted James and the man stopped, breathing heavily, obviously
confused.
"Harry?" he called, frowning in consternation. "You're not Harry. Are
you?"
James couldn't believe his eyes. "Sirius?" he gasped. "You're Sirius
Black!"
"Ten points for you," Sirius replied. "Where am I? Where's Remus and

Harry and the rest? Where's bloody Bellatrix, for that matter? I'm not
through with that witch."
"Sirius!" James called, hitching a sob, completely at a loss. "It's… it's
over! You were k—"
"The dead don't wish to know such things," the Gatekeeper
interrupted, shushing James. "But surely you can see who this is. Sirius
Black. More importantly, your father's long lost godfather."
James nodded, barely hearing.
The Gatekeeper went on. "Deny yourself all you wish, James. Return
your grandfather to the realm of the dead. But will you be able to live with
yourself knowing that you turned down the opportunity to give your father
the one man whose love he has ached for every day of his life? Will you
ever be able to look your father in the eye again, knowing you have denied
him his greatest wish: to have his godfather returned to him?"
James' mind was reeling. "But they're not real!"
"What does that even mean, James?" the Gatekeeper demanded. "Look
at them! They know not their own fates! For them, no time has passed
whatsoever. They believe they are real! Who are you to tell them
otherwise?"
"I don't know!" James cried, clutching his head.
"It is so simple, James," the Gatekeeper soothed, advancing on him. "I
am the King of the Cats. You may join me and see all those you've lost
returned to you. Your grandfather, your father's godfather, even your long
dead grandparents. There is no drawback, James, only one small price. A
price you won't even mind paying, I assure you. A price you will be glad to
pay!"
"What is it?" James asked helplessly, looking back and forth between
Sirius Black and Arthur Weasley.

"A small thing, a trifle," the Gatekeeper said, reaching out to James
and placing its hands on his shoulders. "A service to the world, really."
"I'm not going to kill anyone," James said, shaking his head, tears streaming
down his face.
"Look," the Gatekeeper whispered gently, turning James around. "Look
before you answer."
Behind James was another pool of light. One last figure stood inside it,
seeming rather surprised to be there. Long white hair hung on either side of
a haggard face, and the eyes were filled with hate. James could instantly see
the family resemblance. It was Lucius Malfoy.
"What is the meaning of this…," Lucius breathed. He reached for his
wand, but couldn't seem to find it in his robes. "Where is my wand?" he
said, looking past James to the Gatekeeper. "I demand to know where you
have taken me, you foul creature!"
"This is the man," the Gatekeeper whispered over James' shoulder. "On
his hands is the blood of dozens. It was his plan that both you and your
sister die in the Chamber of Secrets. He is responsible for the death of Petra
Morganstern's parents, and it is by his will that she has been cursed with the
demented soul of Lord Voldemort. Even now, this merciless wretch plots
murder and death. His heart is a black box of hate. Kill him, James. Rid the
world of this madman. Surely he deserves it. Kill him. Do it now." As it
spoke, the Gatekeeper backed away, as if giving James room.
James had meant to refuse. It was on his tongue to say no, but
suddenly, he couldn't bring himself to do it. The Gatekeeper was right.
Lucius Malfoy did deserve to die. He was irredeemable. James felt the
wand in his hand even before he realized he was reaching for it. It was
Ralph's. It felt hot and huge in his palm. It felt deadly.
"What is this?" Lucius purred, narrowing his eyes. "You send a boy to

finish me? I know this one. He is as weak as his father is stupid. He will not
do it. He hasn't the strength."
"He taunts you," the Gatekeeper said silkily, eagerly, its voice coming
again from the air all around. "Show him how wrong he is. Kill him."
James' hand trembled as he leveled Ralph's wand. It seemed to hum in
his fist. It wanted to kill Lucius as much as he did. And then, when the deed
was done and Lucius lay dead at James' feet, he'd have his grandfather
back. And Sirius Black could be Dad's godfather again, just as he always
should have been. James glanced back, and saw both Sirius and Arthur
watching him. They were both frowning slightly, as if they couldn't quite
see what was happening.
"James," Arthur said, his voice worried. "Be careful, son."
"'James'?" Sirius said to himself, glancing at Arthur. He looked back at
James, realization dawning on his face. "We're dead," he said simply. "And
somehow, some way, you're Harry's son, aren't you? Who is that beyond
you… Lucius Malfoy! Beware, James Potter!"
James turned back, looking up into the smug face of his nemesis.
"Do it," the Gatekeeper hissed. "Kill him now!"
Lucius growled, "You cannot! You're weak!"
"I'm not!" James sobbed. He tightened his grip on the wand and
pointed it directly at the taller man's heart. And then, with blissful
suddenness, assurance washed over him. He wasn't weak. He could do
exactly what he had to do. In his mind, he heard both Helga Hufflepuff and
Merlin's voices: the right thing to do is always simple, but it is never easy.
"I am a warrior," James whispered to himself, gritting his teeth. "And
the sign of a true warrior… is knowing when not to fight."
With that, James lowered the wand. He dropped it, and then turned his

back on Lucius Malfoy. Slowly, he began to walk away.
"James Sirius Potter!" the Gatekeeper shouted. "You cannot turn aside!
Kill him! You owe it to the world! You owe it to yourself and your father!
You cannot deny the power I am offering you!"
James looked at his grandfather sadly, his heart breaking. Arthur
smiled proudly and nodded at him.
"Strong, that boy is," Sirius said, his eyes black and sparkling. "Just
like his father before him."
Slowly, the pools of light faded. Arthur and Sirius descended into
darkness.
James kept walking. He was nearly at the edge of his own circle of
light when he heard Lucius Malfoy's voice behind him.
"If you will not kill to become the host of the Gatekeeper," he said, his
voice oozing hatred, "then I will!"
James knew that Lucius had picked up Ralph's wand. He felt it
pointing at him. He stopped in his tracks, not turning around.
"Avada Kedavra!" Lucius hissed, spittle flying from his lips with the
force of his rage. The bolt of green light sizzled through the air and struck
James squarely in the back. James felt the force of it, and it pushed him
forward slightly. Still, he did not turn. He stood precisely on the edge of
light and shadow.
Lucius stared at the boy, his eyes narrowed and a grimace of hatred
carved on his face. The boy should fall now; he was dead. Lucius waited,
still holding the rough, green-tipped wand, still pointing it at the boy's back.
There was a faint ripping sound. A long, ragged tear suddenly
separated along the fabric of the Darkbag on James' back, spreading from
the point where the Killing Curse had struck it. James felt movement in the

Darkbag. Something was awakening inside it. Many somethings, in fact,
and they were hungry.
"What kind of trick is this?" Lucius drawled nervously, taking a step
backwards. He eyed the rip in the Darkbag as a noise began to emanate
from it. James steeled himself, curling his hands into fists. The noise
increased, becoming a loud, busy thrum. And then, violently, the Darkbag
erupted. Borleys poured from the hole where Lucius' Killing Curse had
ruptured it. They'd tasted the raw magic of the curse, and they wanted more.
They streamed through the air toward Lucius like a cloud of bats.
Lucius' eyes bulged at the sight of the advancing Borleys. Instinctively,
he waved the wand at them, firing spells randomly. Jets of light blared from
the wand, and the Borleys went into a feeding frenzy, ravenous and
strengthened by the magic. They fell on Lucius in a cloud.
James finally turned, letting the shredded Darkbag slip from his
shoulders. When he looked back, Lucius was completely engulfed in the
Borleys. They swarmed over him, devouring him alive. He screamed as
they feasted on him, sucking the magic from him, vampirelike. He seemed
to be shrinking. He collapsed to his knees, unseen through the boiling,
shadowy mass. It was horrible, and yet James couldn't bring himself to look
away. Finally, Lucius' body seemed to completely come apart. He dissolved
into a sort of crumbling ash and crumpled to the floor, his last scream
rasping, echoing into nothing. Satisfied, the Borleys exploded away,
screeching and vanishing wildly into the darkness. Within seconds, they
were gone, lost in the Void.
James stepped forward. What was left of Lucius Malfoy poured out of
his sleeves and the neck of his robe like ashen powder. James knelt and,
very carefully, plucked two things from the crumbling dust of Lucius' hand.
As he stood, he pocketed one of them: Ralph's wand. The other, he held in
his hand, feeling the small, dark power of it.
"Put that down," the Gatekeeper ordered, and its voice had changed,
become deeper, less human. "You know not what you have done."

James shook his head. "I know exactly what I've done," he said.
"You cannot defy me!" the Gatekeeper roared, and it revealed itself
once more. It no longer looked human, however, but like an enormous
cloud of swirling smoke and ash. Eyes swarmed through the cloud, all of
them furious, glowing red. "No one can defy the Gatekeeper! Release the
stone! You cannot contain its power!"
"That's true," James said, no longer afraid of the Gatekeeper, "but I
know someone who can."
He turned, somehow knowing that Merlin would be standing nearby.
Perhaps James had even somehow caused him to be there. He walked over
to the big wizard and held out his hand. In it, the ring sparkled brightly.
Darts of light flashed off the black facets of the Beacon Stone.
Merlin smiled a slow, humorless smile. Gently, he took the ring and
placed it on his finger, seating it alongside its twin.
"And now," Merlin said, raising his hand, "as your earthly Ambassador
and bearer of the complete Beacon Stone, I command you! This is not your
world, nor shall you occupy it! Begone, Beast of the Abyss, Gatekeeper of
the Void! I banish you to the nothingness that shall forever be your home!
Depart this moment, and never return!"
The cloud of ash and smoke roared. It made to fall upon Merlin,
attempting to consume him, but a sudden, enormous crack of vivid light
appeared in the darkness, slashing it open. The roar of the Gatekeeper
turned into a shriek as it was pulled upward, toward the crack. It fought
against the force, spinning and writhing, and for a moment, James thought it
looked like a huge, inverted cyclone. And then, with a blinding flash and a
clap of thunder, it was gone, banished back to the Void from which it had
come.
James blinked in the silence. He took a deep breath and turned back to
Merlin, exhausted.

"Is it gone?" he asked. "Gone for good?"
Merlin nodded slowly. "The door between the worlds is shut."
It was over. James turned to look back, curious to see if there was any
remaining sign of that blinding crack into which the Gatekeeper had
vanished. There was nothing but blackness and silence. And then—
There was a flash and James stumbled; light and noise exploded
around him. He squinted, gasping for breath in the sudden noise and rush of
air; he was back on the rear of the Hogwarts Express engine again, as if he'd
never left it. Trees blurred past, just as before, but when James looked out
over the coal car behind him, the air was bright and clear.
"The Dementors are gone!" he called to Merlin.
"Sent back to the Void along with their master," Merlin agreed,
nodding.
James grinned in relief, and then suddenly remembered the train's
perilous destination. "We have to stop the train!" he yelled, his eyes
widening. "It's going to go off the unfinished bridge! Everyone on board
will be killed!"
Merlin nodded again, his face turning grim. Once again, James opened
the door of the engine compartment. Instead of darkness, however, this time
he found a cramped interior space, stiflingly hot. At the front of the
compartment was a bank of incomprehensible dials and gauges. Above this,
two broad windows looked out over the oncoming track.
"Which one is the brake?" James called, scanning the dials and levers
helplessly.
"That large lever on the floor," Merlin replied, pushing up his sleeves.
"Grip the handle and pull as hard as you can, James. No matter what
happens, don't let go."

James wrapped his hands around the large lever, which was nearly as
tall as he was. He coiled to pull it but then made the mistake of looking out
the front windows. The trees had cleared ahead, revealing a broad,
mountainous panorama. The track stretched out before them, spanning a
dizzyingly deep, rocky gorge, but only partially. Less than halfway across,
the bridge stopped, unfinished. James' knees went weak.
"Pull it, James!" Merlin ordered, raising his arms, his face hard as
granite. "Don't let go under any circumstance!"
James gasped a breath and yanked the lever as hard as he could with
both hands. Gears below the engine's floor screeched and clanked as the
braking mechanism engaged. Steam released explosively from the boilers
on either side of the engine, sending up great white clouds. The train
lurched and began to slow, but James knew there was no way it would stop
in time.
Next to him, Merlin held up his arms. He was muttering quickly under
his breath, his eyes closed. James looked up at him from where he stood,
tugging the brake lever. The great sorcerer was trembling very slightly,
nearly vibrating. Sunlight suddenly poured in through the engine's
windows, and James knew they had cleared the trees at the cliff's edge. The
train had begun its journey over the gorge, swiftly approaching the end of
the bridge. Behind James and Merlin, nearly all of the students of Hogwarts
and their teachers were hurtling along, breathless, possibly even clueless of
their fate. The train continued to slow, its wheels grinding, screeching,
sending up sparks, but it was no use. James craned to look through the
windows and saw the end of the track approaching alarmingly fast. A
wooden 'X' had been erected across it to keep workers from accidentally
walking off the end. It looked pathetically fragile as the huge crimson
engine bore down on it. And then, fleetingly, James saw motion at the end
of the track. Something green was moving just beyond, so fast that he could
barely see it. Even as James watched, however, the end of the track
disappeared beneath the sightline of the engine's windows. He gritted his
teeth, pulling the brake lever with all his might, and waited for the long,
sickening drop.

The engine lurched noisily as if it had bumped over a curb, and James
nearly lost his grip on the brake lever. Next to him, Merlin swayed but
remained upright, hands still raised, still muttering under his breath.
Amazingly, the train did not fall. It continued to move forward, pushed by
the weight of the cars behind it, slowing almost imperceptibly. Like Merlin,
the engine suddenly seemed to be vibrating. As it gradually lost its
momentum, the vibration increased, becoming a noisy, jarring shudder that
threatened to shake the engine apart at its bolts. One of the windows
exploded in a starburst of glass, peppering the inside of the compartment
with glittering shards. James winced as bits of glass and warm autumn air
blew past him. A moment later, he craned to look through the broken
window, his eyes wide and disbelieving as the gorge spread beneath the
advancing train. The engine slowed, rattling and grinding until finally, after
what seemed an eternity, it lurched to a halt. The sudden cessation of inertia
threw James off balance and he stumbled to one knee, still gripping the
brake lever.
Silence descended on the engine, shocking after the noise and chaos. It
rang in James' ears. Shuddering, he took a deep breath and struggled to
stand, shaking bits of glass from his hair.
"That was—" he began, and then jumped up, throwing his shoulder
under Merlin's arm as the big wizard began to collapse. "Ugh! You're—unf!
—heavy! What's wrong?"
Merlin struggled to hold himself up. He groaned and clamped a hand
to his head as if to keep it on his shoulders. Slowly, he managed to support
himself, and leaned against the wall of the engine compartment. James
glanced up at him, frowning curiously, and then peered closer.
"What's happened to you?" he asked breathlessly. "You look… old!"
Merlin's face, not exactly young to begin with, was lined with
wrinkles. There were heavy, dark circles under his eyes. Even his beard and
hair seemed to have grown and become threaded with iron grey. He looked
up wearily, saw James' concerned look, and smiled ruefully.

"Twenty years in thirty seconds," he said, his voice dry and cracked.
"Losing two decades that quickly does tend to take it out of someone."
James boggled at him. "Where'd you lose it?"
"Right beneath this train," Merlin said, pushing himself up and turning.
"Come. I cannot guarantee it'll hold much longer. We need to get everyone
off this train, and quickly."
James followed the great sorcerer, and as he did, he felt the strangest
sensation; it was as if the engine was swaying slightly, like a tree limb in a
stiff breeze. As they clambered over the coal car and into the first passenger
compartment, returning to the joyful congratulations of Rose, Ralph, Zane,
and Albus, James couldn't help glancing down. The wheels of the train
seemed to be choked with fresh green leaves and vines. Butterflies flitted
amongst them, their wings flashing in the afternoon sun.
Half an hour later, James stood with the rest of the train's passengers a
quarter of a kilometer away, spread along the edge of the gorge. They were
awaiting a second train, which had been dispatched to carry them the rest of
the way home.
Zane kicked a stone over the ledge and watched it bounce down the
crags into the trees below. "What was it like up there in the engine?" he
asked James.
"Terrifying," James said with feeling. "I thought we were dead, no
question about it."
Rose asked, "Did you see him do it?"
"I saw him do something. I didn't know what he was up to."
"Twenty years' growth in thirty seconds," Albus said wonderingly. "I
wouldn't believe it if I wasn't looking at it."

"The thing that amazes me most," Ralph commented, staring out over
the gorge, "is that he got the tree to grow in the shape of the tracks!"
Once more, James looked out over the forested gorge between the
mountains. From this angle, he could see it clearly. The unfinished train
bridge ended less than halfway across. Growing from the end of the bridge,
however, spreading another third of the way across, was what appeared to
be a giant sequoia tree grown perfectly sideways. The tree was lush with
foliage, billowing slightly in the freshening breeze. The Hogwarts Express
sat atop it, steam still issuing from its boilers in a long white ribbon.
"He sent twenty years of his own life into making that tree grow," Rose
said, shaking her head in disbelief. "Talk about communing with nature."
Zane nodded. "Yeah. He's still down in the hollow right now,
'communing' with the tree sprite of that sequoia. I'm just glad Merlin's the
one that gets to explain to that tree how it grew so fast," he said, grinning.
"And why it's got a steam train sitting on its trunk."

James, Rose, and Albus sat in the tall grass of the yard, blinking
disconsolately in the morning sunlight. Nearby, Harry, Ginny, Ron, and
Hermione stood talking quietly. James looked up, peering along the length
of the dirt drive.
"See anyone?" Albus asked, kicking his heel in the grass.
James shook his head. "They're late."

"Why should they hurry?" Albus griped. "They already paid for it. All
they have to do is sign the papers and get the key. Not that they'll ever use
it."
"I wish this was all over," Rose said, sighing sadly. "I know it was my
idea to come and say goodbye to the Burrow, but now that I'm here, I can
barely look at the old place. Just knowing the new owners are going to tear
it down…"
"Grandma and Lily are looking into flats in the city," James
commented. "That could be nice. It'll be easy for her to take care of, and we
could go see her whenever we want."
Albus muttered, "It won't be the same. Not without the Burrow."
James sighed. George and Angelina's wedding had been the day
before, and, not surprisingly, it had been a very spirited affair. Everyone had
been there, including Hagrid, Neville, and even Professor McGonagall. The
former Headmistress had even danced a little, which had left the students
slack-jawed with amazement. By contrast, sitting in the yard of the Burrow
for the last time, waiting for the new owners to come and take it over, felt
particularly disheartening. "A beginning almost always means an ending,"
James' dad had said as they got ready that morning, but James hadn't found
that particularly comforting. Not for the first time, James found himself
thinking of the final dream he'd had when he'd still had the phantom scar;
the dream in which a somewhat grown-up Albus had given his wand to the
young woman—Petra?—In the graveyard, who had proceeded to launch the
Dark Mark and then turn the wand back on him. Obviously, that had never
happened, and yet James simply couldn't shake the feeling that it was a sort
of prophecy or prediction. Tabitha had told James that Albus was a boy with
great potential, and that, James felt sure, had not been a bluff. Tabitha
believed it. What did it all mean? James gazed at his brother in the sunlight
—his brother, who bore the names of both a great Gryffindor and a great
Slytherin, who looked so very much like his father, the Boy Who Lived.
"Here they come," Rose said morosely.

James followed Rose's gaze and saw a cloud of dust approaching from
the end of the drive.
The three stood and brushed themselves off as the vehicle neared.
They walked slowly over to stand by their parents. Harry squinted and
adjusted his glasses.
"They have a different car than the one they drove to the bank," he
commented.
Ginny said, "You would notice that, Mr. Auror."
"Must be nice," Ron mumbled. "Buying a house and a new car all in
the same week."
"Shh," Hermione said, but without much feeling.
Harry was frowning slightly. "That's not exactly a new car. In fact…"
Suddenly, his face broke into a wondering grin. "I'll be a hinkypunk's
uncle…"
"What?" Albus asked, standing on tiptoes and shielding his eyes from
the sun.
James looked as well. As the vehicle rolled closer, he could see that it
was certainly not a new car. It was, in fact, very old but carefully restored. It
bounced and jogged on the uneven path, winking sunlight off its chrome
bumper and huge windscreen.
"It's the Anglia!" Rose cried, jumping up and down, clapping her
hands. "Granddad's Anglia! But how?"
Harry was shaking his head, smiling. Ron frowned, puzzled, as the car
ground to a squeaky halt directly in front of them. The driver's door swung
open and a large figure climbed out. James didn't recognize the man at first
since he still wasn't accustomed to that suddenly aged face.

"Merlinus!" Hermione said, stepping forward to meet him. "What are
you doing here? How did you get Arthur's automobile?"
"I am happy to say," Merlin replied, "that it came with the house. This
is the correct address, is it not? I assume I'd not find the lot of you standing
in front of anyone else's soon-to-be-reacquired home."
Ron laughed. "This is the place, I guess, but what do you mean?
Where are the Templetons?"
"Happily negotiating the sale of a condominium in Kensington Knob, I
believe," Merlin answered, carefully closing the door of the Anglia. "After
the rather unseemly amount I paid them for this charming domicile, I
suspect they were able to increase their home-buying budget rather a lot."
"You bought the Burrow?" James exclaimed, a grin spreading across
his face.
"But why, Merlin?" Harry asked, shaking his head in wonderment.
Merlin looked surprised. "I would think the answer to that is quite
obvious. I am still rather new to this age and in need of a home for myself.
The offices at the school are quaint, but a wizard of my temperament
desires room to spread out. I find this cottage to be perfectly suited to my
needs, if perhaps a bit too large. That is why I was hoping I might persuade
the previous owner to stay on, to keep me company and manage the place
during the school terms."
"You want Grandma Weasley to come live here again?" Rose cried
happily. "Hooray! That's wonderful!"
Ron asked, "Are you serious? You'd really want Mum to keep living
here?"
Merlin nodded dismissively. "Perhaps she'd indulge me with a cup of

tea now and then. I, on the other hand, can help her to magically support the
place. Seems a fair trade, does it not?"
Hermione grinned happily. "You'd have to lock Molly in the attic to
keep her from making tea for you. Really, Merlinus, this is more than we
could have hoped for. But where did you get the money?"
Merlin narrowed his eyes conspiratorially. "Did you know that
Gringotts bank is over twelve hundred years old? It's truly remarkable what
a small investment can turn into over a thousand years. Let's just say that I
will not be lacking for income for quite some time."
"You made a deposit before you zapped through time?" Ron
exclaimed, his eyes going wide. "That's genius!"
"What fun is it being a sorcerer if you cannot manipulate temporal
loopholes to your advantage?" Merlin agreed, matching Ron's grin.
"Let's go get Grandma and Lily!" Albus said excitedly. "Before she
does anything stupid like renting some flat in the city! We can move her
back in today, right? Right?"
"I don't see why not," Harry laughed. "If it's all right with Merlin."
"I'd not have it any other way," the big man replied. "In fact, we can
take your grandfather's delightful vehicle. I believe we'll all fit inside if we
don't mind getting rather close."
"The Anglia?" James asked as everyone began to clamber into the old
car. "It'll take us forever to get into the city in that."
"I think you'll be surprised," Merlin answered, climbing into the
driver's seat and smiling cryptically. "Hold on to something, everyone. This
might be a little bumpy."
Carefully, Merlin pushed a large button on the car's dashboard. With a
jerk and rattle, the huge canvas wings erupted from the car's sides,

protruding from behind James' head where he sat in the backseat. Noisily,
the wings began to flap up and down, assuming a steady rhythm.
"The wings work!" Albus laughed. "You got the wings working!
Excellent!"
Slowly, accompanied by a rising cloud of windy dust, the car lifted off
the drive. Ron whooped from the passenger's side window as Merlin steered
the car in the air, aiming it toward the western horizon. To the sound of
delighted laughter and Hermione's shriek of happy terror, Merlin stepped on
the accelerator, pushing it to the floor. The wings buzzed, and the car nosed
down, darting like a bumblebee over the yard of the Burrow and casting its
shadow over the garage as it went.
For miles around, Muggle children looked up, wondering about the
mysterious sound of laughter that passed quickly, fleetingly overhead.

The End

Dear Reader,
So this is the second book. Thank you so much for reading!
Just as James Potter and the Hall of Elders' Crossing was, at least in part, a
retelling of C. S. Lewis' haunting novel That Hideous Strength, I came to
discover that Curse of the Gatekeeper was very much inspired by Ms.
Rowling's own second work, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. As
always, I doff my hat with the greatest of respect to Ms. Rowling, whose
imagination has spawned a world so fertile and inspiring as to feed the
imaginations of so many others. Similarly, I'm sure I am not the first author
to realize that my writing tends to reflect the works of whoever I happen to
be reading at the time, thus I should extend additional thanks to Orson Scott
Card and Stephen King, whose ideas and themes are also peppered
throughout this work. If fan-fiction is simply reheated leftovers of another
writer's creation, at least I can hope that this story is a casserole.
Special thanks should be offered to all my friends at the Grotto Keep forum,
whose constant encouragement and inspiration are chiefly responsible for
this story's existence.
I'd also like to mention Ms. Julianna So, who edited this work in the same
way that I wrote it: for no compensation and merely for the love of the
story. Her painstaking effort and love of the world of Harry (and James)
Potter were invaluable all through the editing process. Every correct detail
in this story can be credited to her; every incorrect detail is probably a result
of my ignoring her suggestions.
Also of great assistance was Mr. Derek Kelley, whose grasp of language,
history, and all things English was of immense help. Among many other
things, he is responsible for the Shakespearean "translation" of all the
passages from the Triumvirate, giving my clumsy lines the metre of true
poetry.
Finally, of course, many thanks to my wife, who endured my reading every

new chapter to her each night as I finished it, and whose sincere enthusiasm
and feedback was the first step in helping these stories to happen.
In all honesty, I wasn't sure there really would be a sequel to James Potter
and the Hall of Elders' Crossing, even though, as I was writing that first
book, I knew it was part of a much larger story. Now that I've finished
Curse of the Gatekeeper, I can see that there is still an awful lot of story to
tell. Will Scorpius win the struggle against the inertia of his pureblood
heritage? How will Ralph cope with the ongoing baggage of his own family
name? What of Petra, whose struggle between her own goodness and the
last shred of the Dark Lord so closely mirrors the struggle we all have in
our hearts? Will James ever be able to face Petra if she allows darkness to
rule her? And most importantly of all, what was the meaning of James' last,
mysterious dream, in which Petra and Albus stood at the edge of that
freshly dug grave beneath the green glow of the revived Dark Mark?
As I sit here, two months before the official release of JPCG, I wonder how
this story will be received. Will people be angry about what happens with
Arthur Weasley? Will people hate the story, since it is so unlike JPHEC in
many ways? Or will they be asking, when it is finished, "What happens
next? Will there be a book three?"
And will there be? The answer to that question is: I don't know. I have an
idea of how this whole story is meant to play out, of course, but it is
exhausting writing stories grown in someone else's creation. Not because
the ideas won't come, but because the seeds aren't mine. They belong to Ms.
Rowling. I cannot sell these stories, and there are loads of legal restrictions
about what can be done even with a free distribution. In short, there is only
so much practical benefit to writing more James Potter stories. I should
probably write some of my own stories, don't you think? It scares me a little
bit, but I think I can do it. I think I will do it.
But do you want to know a secret, dear reader? I am almost positive I will
eventually, in some way, shape or form, write the rest of James Potter's
story, even if I never release it. Why? Because I, myself, want to know what
happens! You may laugh, but it's true. I know the basic outline, but I don't
know the details at all, and I'm very, very curious to find out. Does James'

growing love for Petra win her over? Does Albus change Slytherin, or does
Slytherin change him? And what, oh what, really happens in that scene in
the graveyard beneath the eerie glare of the Dark Mark? Someday,
somewhere, I believe I will write the rest of these stories, because I want to
find out for myself. And if I do, I probably will share them.
…probably.
(Evil grin)
G. Norman Lippert 27 June, 2008

