Table of Contents
Title Page
Prologue Four years earlier
1. The Interview
2. Winds Of Change”
3. The Midnight Summit
4. Secret Of The Dagger
5. Junior Aurors In Training
6. Ordinance Thirteen
7. The Tryout He Didn't Miss
8. The Thread And The Brooch
9. Peeves Plays His Part
10. Hagrid’s Letter
11. Blackbrier Quoit
12. Midnight RendezVous
13. The Triumvirate Revisited
14. The Elven Uprising
15. The One To Stand For All
16. Hagrid Makes A Plan
17. Conspiracy Of The Dragon
18. A Brief Reprieve
19. Back To London
20. World In Collapse
21. Disintegrating Plans
22. The End Of The Beginning
23. Chaos Descends
24. The Blood Of Dearest Love
25. The Time Between the Times
26. The Shackle Of The Brooch
27. The Triple-six Enigma
Epilogue

For “Tabitha Corsica”.
You know who you are.

PROLOGUE
FOUR YEARS EARLIER
Keynes could sense her coming.
The lights had blinked out while he was on the stairs, causing him to
stumble and eliciting a chorus of startled exclamations from his entourage.
A second later, when the lights flickered back on, he was alone.
He glanced around quickly, turning on the spot, taking in the painted
brick walls and the concrete steps. Gone were the guards that had
accompanied him, as well as the official court Obliviator. Keynes barely
noticed. What mattered most was the little girl, Isabella Morganstern.
He’d been gripping her by the wrist, squeezing with the full force of
his fist, as tight and merciless as a cuff. He knew that he was hurting her,
and not just because of her incessant screams. His anger made him
vengeful. The thought that he might be bruising the girl’s wrist made him
squeeze even harder, viciously grinding the fine bones of her forearm.
He’d been furious with her for running away from him, but even more, for
embarrassing him. This squalling, unmagicked, precocious, British dimwit
had dared to defy Albert Keynes, General Arbiter for the Wizarding Court
of the United States. She’d actually had the audacity to make him chase
her.
Fortunately, even though the rest of his entourage had somehow
vanished, the girl was still there, dragging behind his fist, her eyes wide as

the lights flickered back on. Her hair swung in sweaty blonde curls around
her face as she looked up and down the stairwell, searching. For a moment,
Keynes thought she was looking for the missing guards, but then he
understood otherwise. She was looking for her sister. Petra Morganstern,
the young woman whose name the little brat had been shrieking only
seconds earlier, the young woman whom they had just left, sleeping the
cursed sleep of guilt, lying on a bare bed in a guarded basement cell.
“Don’t be foolish,” he said, mocking the little girl’s hopeful
expression. His words were lost, however, obliterated in a sudden gust of
cold wind. It flapped the brim of Keynes’ black hat, threatening to whip it
from his bald head like a teasing ghost. The whickering air was so cold that
he fancied he could feel flecks of ice in it, stinging his cheeks and eyes.
The blonde girl turned to look at him for the first time since being
recaptured. Her mouth was still pressed into a worried frown, but her eyes
glittered like emeralds, suddenly expectant, even eager.
He shook his head at her, not quite daring to speak again, and
wagged an admonishing finger at her with his free hand. He tugged her
forward again so that she stumbled up the steps, dragged by his whiteknuckled fist. He didn’t know what was going on, but unexpected magic
was no surprise in his line of work.
The stairs stopped at the next landing, leading to a single door,
thrown open so wide that its handle had cracked the brick hallway wall
beyond. Keynes stopped, momentarily confused. They’d been climbing
from the basement. There were at least nine more flights of stairs to the top
of the building. How could they have reached the top already?
The air was still icy with cold. His breath puffed before his face,
chugging with just the faintest tremor of a shiver.
And of course he understood how he’d gotten to where he was after
all. His entourage hadn’t been vanished away. He had. He’d been
magically transported up nine flights of stairs in the blink of an eye, during
the flash and flicker of the lights. The only reason the girl had come with
him was that he’d been holding onto her so tightly.
The girl hadn’t performed the magic. But the glimmer in her eyes
told him she knew who had.
“You’d better let me go,” she said with quiet emphasis.
Keynes tried to imagine fear and petulance in her plea, but he knew
there was none. Instead, she almost seemed to be taking reluctant pity on

him. As if she was giving him one last chance to avoid something awful.
“You’re a little fool,” he growled at her, hissing forcefully through
his teeth so that spittle flew. His breath puffed pale clouds into the air.
“Your sister is guilty. You have no legal magical guardian. The court has
spoken, and I intend to carry out its orders. You will be officially
obliviated. You’re only making matters worse for--”
Another burst of wind, even harder and colder than before, bowled
over him, ripping his hat from his head and flapping his robes like a flag.
He clutched at the doorframe with his free hand but the wind forced him
through, slamming the stairwell door behind him so violently that its tiny
window shattered, spraying the hallway floor with crumbles of glass.
Keynes scrambled around, grabbed at the door handle and shook it, tugged
it so hard that it rattled in its socket. The door was jammed shut, as
immovable as stone.
And still his hand remained viced onto the girl’s wrist, dragging her
with him.
She was coming. The girl’s sister. It was impossible, but she had
awoken from her cursed sleep. She had been summoned by the blonde
brat’s incessant screams. That was why the girl had stopped calling for her.
That was why she was no longer afraid.
Her fear had transferred itself onto Keynes. Amazingly, this fact
infuriated as much as disconcerted him. He was accustomed to being the
one instilling the fear. Of course, the fright he inspired was righteous and
true, the fright all wrongdoers feel when finally confronted with the cold
hand of justice. Perhaps he did secretly relish being that cold hand. Perhaps
wielding the scales of power and vengeance did award him an unforgiving
thrill. But was that such a bad thing? He took pride in his work, that was
all. There was no evil in it. At least, nothing that deserved the terror he
now felt creeping over him, prickling his skin, swallowing him whole like a
snake slowly digesting its prey.
“You stay away from me,” he commanded into the seemingly empty
hallway, producing his wand from his robes. To his own ears, his voice
sounded small, trembling. The wand in his outstretched hand shook. “You
stay away from me! I’m carrying out my duties! In the name of the
wizarding court of the United States of--”
“Let her go,” a woman’s voice said. It was low and bloodless,
vibrating from the walls all around. Like the blonde girl’s before it, the

voice seemed to be offering a reluctant warning. It sounded like a voice
that wanted to be disobeyed.
“You stay back!” Keynes cried out, extending his wand full length
ahead of him, gripping it fiercely. He waved it back and forth as he edged
along the hall, dragging Isabella with him.
The hallway was long and drab, lined with bricks enameled a pale,
industrial green. The bare concrete floor radiated cold. Black doors lined
both walls, all closed, marching away for what seemed like miles. But that
was an illusion, of course. Keynes knew there were stairwells at both ends
of the building. If he could make it to the other end, he could take the girl
back down. Her sister could not stop him. She was guilty. She was chaos.
Keynes firmed his jaw and straightened his back. He was justice.
He was order.
The lights flickered again and buzzed. The bulbs overhead were
old, clear glass glowing with bright Goblinwire filaments. They required
no Muggle electricity to burn, and yet, one by one, they began to
extinguish. Each one popped like a miniature bomb, spraying glass and
cold sparks. Darkness marched down the hall toward Keynes, but he forced
himself to walk into it, increasing speed and raising his chin to face it.
“Chaos cannot defeat me!” he cried out, calling into the approaching
dark. “I am order! Order trumps chaos!” He marched faster, his fist still
cinched onto Isabella’s hand, squeezing her wrist hard enough to bruise the
very bones, dragging her forcibly along with him.
The bulb directly over Keynes clouded suddenly with frost. Its light
dulled, went cold, then flashed brilliantly, exploding. Glass and sparks
rained down on him, peppering his bare head.
Petra Morganstern’s voice came from directly ahead of him. “I’m
not chaos,” it said, and suddenly she was standing before Keynes, her
silhouette slight, but rushing with cold wind, somehow towering. She was
like a woman-shaped black hole, full of compressed gravity and seamless
dark. “And you’re not order. I just want my sister back.”
Keynes halted clumsily and even stumbled back a step, his eyes
bulging wide at the shape before him. “Oh, no you don’t!” he said
stridently, shrilly. “You think you can simply defy me?!” He shook his
head furiously, his rage somehow equaling his terror. “You’re a condemned
criminal! You have no legal rights! You… you…!”
Petra’s arm stretched out toward Keynes. He couldn’t tell if she was

reaching for the girl in his grip or for his own neck. The blackness of her
silhouette seemed to pull him in. He resisted, pressing his lips into an
enraged line. Violently, he jerked Isabella forward in front of him, using
her like a human shield. He hooked his left elbow under her chin, forcing
her head back against his chest, and raised his right fist, brandishing his
wand. In a second, it was jabbed against the blonde girl’s temple.
“I’ll do it myself!” he shrieked in a fevered rush, his eyes widening
with zeal. “I’m not as good as the official court Obliviator, but I know the
spell! She may never be capable of forming another memory again. But I
can do it! I will do it! You’ll force me to it! The court has spoken!” He
screamed the last sentence, hoarsely enunciating each word as if it was a
talisman.
“Put down the wand…” Petra said, her voice dropping to an icy
monotone. Her form seemed to elongate, to grow in size, looming against
the dimness of the walls. The walls themselves bulged away from her.
Cracks raced along the bricks, spurting broken mortar like fireworks.
Distantly, windows shattered and walls groaned. “Let. Her. GO!”
Keynes sucked in a sudden breath, filling his chest and preparing to
shout. “OBLIVIA--”
Along the length of the hall, every door blew open like an
explosion, erupting with clouds of icy steam. Petra’s arm lanced forward
like a snake, clamping onto Keynes’ throat and propelling him backwards,
straight out of his shoes. His hands scrabbled helplessly, first releasing
Isabella and his wand, and then groping uselessly at the icy fist wrapped
around his throat, locked beneath the shelf of his chin. And still Petra’s
form drove him backwards along the hall, faster and faster, floating in
pursuit, flying, her hair streaming around her like the snakes of a medusa.
Her shape was a black nightmare of shadow except for her eyes, which
blazed like starlight through sapphires. Keynes’ heels stuttered wildly
backwards along the hall, scattering broken lightbulb glass.
“I’ve killed once before!” Petra’s voice boomed. The sound was
like cracking glaciers, echoing, ringing along the bulging walls like a gong.
“Horror that she was, the woman I killed was still the better of a deluded
insect like YOU!”
“Petra!” a small, unexpected voice interrupted. It was a girl’s voice,
familiar enough not to shatter Petra’s rage, but to surprise and pause it, at
least for a second. Pent lightning crackled along the hall from Petra’s eyes

and free hand, longing to be unleashed, and yet, reluctantly, she halted.
Keynes was still thrust forward in her extended fist, his own hands clamped
around hers, uselessly struggling, his mouth frozen in a silent, choked gasp,
his eyes bulging up at her face.
“Izzy?” Petra said without turning, blinking the cold blue glow from
her eyes.
“No,” the voice said meekly. “It’s me. Lucy.”
Petra finally looked back over her shoulder. Her hair hung around
her face like black ribbons, revealing only one eye. She blinked again,
ignoring the struggling Keynes.
Lucy was standing next to Izzy. As Petra watched, the girls drew a
step closer together. Without looking, Lucy reached for Izzy’s hand, and
Izzy gave it to her, lacing their fingers together. And with that gesture,
Petra understood something. While she had been asleep, under the
influence of Mother Newt’s poison apple, something had happened between
Lucy and Izzy that had bonded them. They were friends now. Other than
Petra, Izzy had never before had a true friend. Despite everything, the sight
of the girls’ clasped hands both broke and gladdened Petra’s heart.
“Don’t kill him, Petra,” Lucy said. Her dark eyes were calm, neither
begging nor demanding. “Not because he deserves to live. I don’t know.
He does seem like a pretty awful man. He may deserve to die. But you
don’t deserve to kill.”
Petra glanced from Lucy’s dark eyes to Izzy’s green ones. The
blonde girl was nodding slowly. “It’s not like with my mother,” she said in
a low voice. “She was so miserable and ugly inside that she almost wanted
to be killed. She nearly begged for it. But this… it’s different.”
Petra’s grip slowly tightened on Keynes’ neck, creaking the joints of
his vertebra. His jaw dropped as his mouth gaped like a beached fish. His
thin chest hitched silently. Petra ignored him, still staring back over her
shoulder at the two girls, at their laced hands.
“But… he almost ruined you, Iz…” she said. There was something
like a plea in her voice. “He’s a human wreck. He deserves nothing but to
be ended.”
Izzy nodded. Lucy frowned worriedly. “He probably does,” she
admitted reasonably. “But you don’t deserve the stain that ending him
would leave on you. On your soul.”
Petra heard the words, and knew in her deepest heart, the eye of her

rage’s storm, that they were good. Lucy was right. And yet…
And yet another voice spoke up inside her thoughts. A voice that
she, Petra, had not heard in almost a year.
KILLING IS NOT A STAIN, the voice exclaimed, screaming the
words in the centre of Petra’s mind, drowning out every other thought like
an impatient observer that can no longer remain silent. KILLING IS THE
POWER OF IMMORTALITY! KILLING IS BEING AS A GOD!
“Yes,” Petra said to herself, her expression going calm again as she
turned back to Keynes. She desperately wanted to agree with the Voice of
the Bloodline in her mind. It felt so good to go along. “And he does
deserve it…”
Keynes saw the resolve forming in Petra’s eyes and tried to shake
his head. His eyes bulged from their sockets, even as his face drained of all
color, turned as pale as wax.
He deserves to die… The Voice agreed, now dropping to a greedy
whisper. They ALL deserve to diiie!!
“We all deserve to die,” Lucy agreed from behind Petra, almost as if
she could also hear the vicious Voice in Petra’s mind. Her words were like
a lilt of sanity in the frozen air, unavoidable and persistent. “We all deserve
to die, Petra, the moment someone with power decides they have the right
to kill.”
Petra blinked again.
She paused.
Lucy was right. Of course she was. Petra wanted desperately to
refuse it. The Voice that haunted her thoughts railed against it, cursed
against it, would have turned and killed Lucy herself just to silence her if it
could. But the Voice didn’t control Petra anymore. Despite its strength,
and despite the occasional dark persuasion of its logic, the Voice of the
Bloodline was no longer a curse. It was just a part of her, and she was a
part of it.
Grudgingly, hating herself for doing it, she let go of Keynes.
He dropped to the floor and crumpled like a doll made of loose
sticks.
Petra stared down at him, unmoving and unmoved. She yearned to
kill him still. Her fingertips arced and crackled with icy power at the
thought. But somehow she resisted.
Warmth approached her from behind. The two girls took Petra’s

hands, one each, warming them and stifling the killing power that wanted to
lance out, that yearned for expression.
You can hold it in for a time, the Voice seethed petulantly,
diminishing once again into the background noise of Petra’s mind. But you
can’t control it forever. And when you finally unleash it, it won’t care who
is standing in your way…
“Is he still alive?” Lucy asked, looking down with morbid
fascination at the crumpled form of the Arbiter.
“He’s alive,” Petra admitted reluctantly.
Lucy nodded. “I’m glad, Petra,” she said, and then glanced up at
her, her dark eyes somber and sincere. “I’m glad you didn’t kill him.
Because some things can’t be undone. Some lost things can’t be unlost. No
matter how much you might want them to be.”
Later, barely an hour from that moment in the hallway with the three
girls standing hand-in-hand, Petra would remember Lucy’s words. They
would come to her in a flash of light and a moment’s horror-- a moment that
would turn into an endless ringing note, growing louder rather than softer
with every passing day and month and year. Petra would know all too
painfully well how much one might wish for a lost thing to become unlost.
But were Lucy’s words true? Were lost things ever really lost
forever?
Petra had been teased with such bargains before, but they were
always false bargain, empty hopes, mere capricious tricks intended to
manipulate.
But what if she, Petra, could conjure the answer herself? What if,
purely by the strength of her own immense power and prosaic intelligence,
she could write her own bargain?
Was there any price worth paying, no matter how high, to find out?
She wondered. Over the course of the following years, Petra
wondered that more and more.

1. THE INTERVIEW
“Looks just like the first time we rode it,” Ralph commented
jovially, making his way along the corridor of the Hogwarts Express to the
raucous noise of boarding students and the nearby hiss and chuff of the
crimson engine. Rafters of steam, brilliant white in the morning sun, drifted
past the windows. “It’s easy to forget the whole world’s about to drop
straight off a cliff, isn’t it?”
Rose hefted her bag past a gaggle of nervous-looking first years. “I
really wish you’d stop saying that. You’re just repeating what your father
says.”
“Well,” James bobbed his head, “Denniston Dolohov is chief
Muggle advisor to the Minister of Magic. It’s his job to know all the ways
the magical world is breaking out into the Muggle, and the other way
around. He’d know better than anyone. Here.”
He pointed toward an empty compartment near the end of the
corridor. Noisily, they shunted open the door and filed in, unloading their
knapsacks and duffles and hoisting them up onto the luggage racks. James
leaned to peer out the window before sitting down. The usual crowd milled
on the platform-- knots of families saying goodbye, students hurrying with
carts of trunks, tall porters in red coats directing people and tweeting their
whistles-- but the collection of wizarding news people were still evident in
the foreground, holding court near the engine. The Daily Prophet

photographer’s flash poofed over the crowd as he snapped more pictures.
Next to him was Myron Madrigal from wizarding wireless news, who
appeared to be conversing with Cameron Creevey, broadcasting live with
his wand held between them. James grimaced, knowing that the boy’s
infectious enthusiasm would probably fill ten breathless minutes of air-time,
whether Madrigal wished it or not, and nine of those minutes would
probably be about James Sirius Potter.
“She doesn’t seem to be down there anymore,” Rose commented,
cramming in next to James and blocking his view with her bushy reddish
hair.
“Probably already on board,” Albus suggested, joining them in the
compartment and tugging the door shut with a bang. “Getting all set up for
her big interview, I imagine. Your public awaits, James.”
“Just shut it, will you?” James shook his head in embarrassed
annoyance. “She’ll probably be interviewing loads of us, not just me.
Besides, it sure wasn’t my idea.”
Rose sniffed. “But you didn’t say no, did you?” Suddenly she
raised a hand and waved energetically. “Bye mum! Dad! Love you! See
you at Christmas!”
The train shunted and clattered as it began to roll forward. The chuff
of the engine rose both in pitch and rhythm, becoming a steady, noisy beat
in the air. The faces on the platform began to drift sideways, receding
away. James shouldered his cousin aside as much as possible and spied his
own parents watching, smiling in the sunlight. His mum saw him and
waved. He waved back tentatively, nervously, thinking of the upcoming
interview.
“She’s changed, I expect,” his dad had said the day before, when the
official request had come by owl from the offices of the Daily Prophet. “I
don’t think there’s anything to worry about, James. The world has bigger
cauldrons to boil these days. What possible harm could she do anymore?”
Aunt Hermione had been far less magnanimous when she’d heard
about it only moments before, on Platform Nine and Three Quarters. “You
just remind her whose nephew you are,” she’d whispered into his ear,
unsmiling. “I doubt she’s forgotten me, or a certain glass jar.”
A sharp rap came from the window of the compartment door. James
glanced back to see a man on the other side, peering through with a cane
raised in his fist, prepared to knock again. He was a small man with large

hands, clean-shaven beneath a bland bowler hat, wearing tiny wire-framed
spectacles and a tweed vest. His eyes flicked over the occupants of the
compartment and landed on James.
“James Potter?” he called through the glass.
James nodded, and the tension in his chest cinched a few notches
tighter.
“I’m Mr. Bullova from the Daily Prophet,” he said, still raising his
voice to speak through the glass window. “We spoke yesterday via floo?
We’re ready for you if you are.” He stepped back, not waiting for an
answer.
James heaved a sigh and moved reluctantly to the door. “That sure
was fast.”
“Don’t forget us little people when you’re all famous,” Albus
clapped him on the shoulder as he went.
“Good to meet you, Mr. Potter,” Bullova shook his hand briefly but
vigorously as James joined him in the corridor. “We’re just a few carriages
up. If you’ll follow me.” He gestured and led the way, moving with a sort
of mousy economy, not looking back.
James felt terribly self-conscious following the man through the
carriages, knowing that he was being seen by loads of his friends and
schoolmates, who by now had some idea of what was going on. Despite
what he’d said to Albus, he suspected that none of them were being
interviewed for the Daily Prophet about ‘the changing magical world and
its impact on the younger generation’ (as Mr. Bullova had blithely put it in
his invitation). But then again, as Uncle Ron had commented on the
platform, none of them were the firstborn son of Harry Potter.
They passed through three connectors, finally entering a much more
sumptuous carriage near the front of the train. Red carpets and brass
fixtures adorned the corridor and the smell of pipe tobacco seemed to have
worked its way into the very grain of the polished wood paneling. Here,
teachers rather than students occupied the compartments. As James passed
by, he recognized Kendrick Debellows, the Defense Against the Dark Arts
teacher, his crew-cut head nodding in conversation with Potions Mistress
Lucia Heretofore. Across from them was a surprisingly young man with
black hair and sharp features. The man glanced up as James passed the
compartment, his expression merely idly curious. James had never seen
him before and wondered fleetingly if he was some new teacher’s assistant.

He was clearly too young to be a professor.
“And here we are,” Bullova announced crisply, stopping at the last
compartment and shuttling open the door. “Just have a seat, if you would.”
Bullova stepped aside and gestured with the cane in his large left
fist, ushering James inside. As James entered, Bullova shunted the door
closed from the outside. James turned to look back through the
compartment window, but the small man was already retreating down the
corridor, a gold pocket watch open in his free hand.
James turned back to the compartment, which was much different
than any of the others he had ridden in. It was larger, with four red
upholstered chairs instead of benches. Between them was a small but heavy
table, polished to a mirror-like shine. A small notebook, bound in buff
leather, sat on the table. Atop this lay a vividly green quill. James
recognized the instrument from his father’s descriptions. It was a QuickQuotes Quill, charmed to record whatever it heard, albeit with questionable
embellishments.
James decided to sit while he waited. He chose the chair nearest the
outside window and plopped into it, thankful for the moment of quiet, but
restless to get the interview over with.
The outskirts of London streamed past the window, resplendent in
the morning sun. James watched the city blur along for a moment, and then
turned his attention back to the Quill.
Experimentally, he cleared his throat.
The Quick-Quotes Quill jumped to attention, flicking into the air as
the notebook snapped open, riffling to a blank page. With a tiny pecking
sound, the Quill tapped down onto the page and vibrated bolt upright, as if
waiting.
Fascinated but a little leary, James leaned closer to the table. “My
name,” he said slowly, experimentally, “is James Sirius Potter.”
The Quill began to scratch busily across the page, stopping after
only a few seconds.
James leaned closer still, craning his head to read the upside-down
writing.
The young Potter introduces himself with a degree of
palpable pride, clearly content with the pedigree of his famed
lineage.

“The pedigree of his…” James read, furrowing his brow. “I
didn’t…! What do you mean ‘palpable pride’?”
The Quill began to scribble again. James made to grab for it, but the
Quill leapt and feinted easily around his reaching hand, pecking back to the
notebook without the slightest pause and continuing mid-sentence.
James jumped to his feet, meaning to grab the notebook away from
the Quill, but a sudden buzzing noise startled him. Something small flitted
around his head, and then droned toward the window, where it landed with
a faint bump on the windowsill. James saw that it was a beetle. He almost
dismissed it and resumed his mission to tear away the offending notebook
page (upon which the Quill was still writing furiously) when a sudden
suspicion—nearly a certainty—fell over him like a leaden wave. He looked
closer at the beetle, which seemed to be regarding him from its perch on the
sill. Its antenna waved faintly.
James’ shoulders slumped. With a sigh, he sat back down in the
chair. Before him, the Quill finally finished its paragraph and jerked
upright again, waiting.
The beetle unfurled its delicate wings, buzzed them, and lofted from
the windowsill, casting its tiny shadow onto the table, where it landed near
the notebook and Quill. It trundled toward the edge nearest James, glinting
iridescent green in the flickering sunbeams, and then stopped, seeming to
eye him again with its tiny, unblinking orbs. After only a moment, the
beetle burst into a greenish rainbow of dense, swirling smoke, which
condensed into the unmistakable shape of a woman. She was seated
coquettishly on the edge of the table in a natty green jacket and skirt,
peering at James through tortoiseshell spectacles, her red lips formed into a
sardonic little smile.
“I hope you’ll forgive me, Mr. Potter,” she offered, dropping her
eyes slightly. “Old habits die hard. But I do find that what a subject does in
the thoughtful moments before an interview can be highly illuminating.
I’m Rita Skeeter.”
She extended her hand, which was very thin and pale, palm down.
Almost reflexively, James shook it, but briefly. Her fingers were cool but
strong, despite the looseness of her grip. James guessed that she was in her
late fifties, but had clearly invested much effort and money to appear much
younger. Her probably falsely blonde hair was done in flouncy waves that

framed her narrow, immaculate face.
She brightened and turned toward the notebook. “I also apologize
for this…” Without reading it, she tore the topmost page out and balled it in
her hands, throwing James a conspiratorial little wink. “The Quill is still set
to Tabloid mode. Embarrassing, but a necessary evil when one also
freelances for publications like Witch Weekly and the Crafty Conjurer. Just
one moment…”
She withdrew a sleek wand from her sleeve and daintily tapped the
Quill, which lofted briefly into the air, pirouetted, and then tapped back
down onto a new blank page in the notebook, apparently reset to a less
sensational recording mode, although James knew he couldn’t be sure.
Returning her wand to her sleeve, Skeeter turned back to James,
relaxed comfortably on her perch on the desk, and narrowed her eyes at
him. For what felt like half a minute she merely studied him, her gaze
ticking slightly over his face, as if reading his mind, or at least giving a very
practiced suggestion of it. James blinked at her, and then around the room,
growing exquisitely uncomfortable in the stuffy quiet. He could see the
door over the woman’s left shoulder and heartily wished he was already on
the other side of it.
“You’ll have heard about me,” she finally stated, her voice quietly
musing. “From your family.” She nodded, as if resigned and slightly
penitent. “I understand, of course. But I want you to know that I am not
the journalist I was then. I’m not the Rita Skeeter your Aunt and uncle and
father met those many years ago, James. May I call you James?”
James gave a small shrug and nodded.
“I was young then, James,” she went on with a wistful sigh.
“Young, and eager, and perhaps a bit too ambitious. But I’m different now.
I need you to know that before we start. You can trust me.” She leaned
even closer, waiting for him to make eye contact with her. Her gaze was
huge and somber behind her stylish glasses. “I’m on your side, James.”
Slightly nonplussed, James shrugged and bobbed his head again, not
knowing if he actually believed her. The intensity of her stare was like
being probed with purple-eye-shadowed spotlights.
But then Skeeter relaxed again. She blew out a sigh and nodded to
herself. “That’s a relief, James. Because for the sake of my readers, I need
to know the real you. The unguarded you. Shall we begin?”
James merely nodded a third time. He pushed himself back into the

upholstery of the chair, trying to extract himself from Skeeter’s perfumed
aura.
“This is your seventh year at Hogwarts, then, yes?” She asked
lightly. “And despite the turmoil elsewhere in the world, your last two
years have been remarkably uneventful. Something that was never true for
your famous father.” She smiled at him observantly, looking for a
response. James couldn’t tell if there was congratulation or reproach in her
gaze. When he offered no comment she went on briskly. “So, are you
looking forward to graduation?”
James drew a deep breath, relieved to finally confront a question he
could answer. “I guess I am. I haven’t really decided what I’m going to do
with myself afterward. I was thinking of becoming an Auror. Like my
dad. But my grades are…” He shrugged and bobbed his head
noncommittally.
Behind Skeeter, the Quill commenced writing again, scratching
busily over the notebook. It was minutely distracting.
“Ah, yes. Harry Potter, the Auror,” Skeeter nodded lightly, and then
turned serious. “But these are difficult times in which to be an Auror, are
they not? Three years since the Night of the Unveiling. The Vow of
Secrecy erodes more every day. It must be extremely frustrating, even
hopeless work, trying to patch together the wall that divides the magical
world from its Muggle counterpart, while still chasing down the occasional
flying carpet smuggler and dabbler in dark magic. Wouldn’t you agree?”
James did agree, having heard his father say virtually the exact same
thing over the past few years, but he felt uncomfortable saying so. He
merely shrugged.
Beneath the steady shimmy and clatter of the train, the Quill
scritched and capered.
“You were there on the night that it happened, weren’t you?”
Skeeter asked quietly, cocking her head. “The Night of the Unveiling? You
were right there in the middle of it all, isn’t that correct, James? What do
you remember of it?”
James pressed his lips together, thinking furiously. What could he
say? There was no way to answer the question easily, or even safely. The
Lady of the Lake, the mastermind behind the whole nefarious affair, was
virtually unknown, considered a myth by most of the people who had heard
of her, and this despite her potentially disastrous appearance at the so-called

Hogwarts “Quidditch Summit” two years earlier. Petra had battled and
ultimately defeated her there, with some unlikely help from an Alma Aleron
student named Nastasia Hendricks. And yet it was Petra who had borne the
blame for the plot of the Morrigan Web, adding to the guilt already heaped
upon her for the Night of the Unveiling, when she had indeed deliberately
fractured the veil of secrecy between the Muggle and magical worlds.
“I was there,” James foundered uneasily, “It was all kind of a blur. I
don’t remember a lot.”
“But you remember your friend, Petra Morganstern?” Skeeter
probed, raising her eyebrows. “She was your friend, yes?”
James nodded faintly, thinking back to that night. He could still see
Petra in his memory, walking down the centre of the broad New York
avenue, hand in hand with her young sister Izzy, lofting parade floats into
the air with the sheer power of her mind. He could still hear the toll of her
voice as she called out to the Statue, the guardian of the magical city of
New Amsterdam, caster of the greatest secrecy spell ever conjured, asking
her to lower her torch, to break the spell.
James nodded soberly. “Yes, Petra is my friend.”
“You speak in the present tense, James,” Skeeter clarified, as if she
thought she might have misheard him. “Surely you don’t mean to suggest
that you are still friends with Ms. Morganstern. She is, after all, the most
notorious witch in our lifetimes, perhaps in all lifetimes. The only female
Undesirable Number One in history. The mastermind behind at least two
murderous and chaotic plots to undermine the very foundation of our
world. Of course, at the time, she had been living under the protection of
your family, isn’t that right? And she had spent the previous summer in the
Potter household, after the mysterious tragedy of her grandparents’ farm,
where both of them ended up dead.” She paused, allowing her words to
sink in, studying James’ face. “What do you say to the people who claim
that this represents a serious lapse in judgment for a head Auror? Who
claim that he should not only be dismissed from the position, but brought
before the Wizengamot for negligence and conspiracy?”
Skeeter was clearly trying to provoke James, and had been since the
interview began. It was beginning to work. James glared at her, calm but
heating with anger. “I’d say none of them were there when Petra showed
up and told her story.”
“Perhaps you can tell it to us yourself,” Skeeter suggested.

James had grown both bolder and slightly more jaded over the past
two years. He did not rise to her bait. “No one would believe it,” he
sighed, glancing at the door behind Skeeter. “And it’s not my story to tell.”
“Are you still friends with her, James? Are you in contact with Petra
Morganstern?”
James was not surprised by the question. He’d even prepared
himself for its eventuality. He shook his head. “No. How could I be?
She’s been in hiding for years now. She may not even be alive anymore, for
all we know.”
Without thinking about it, he closed his right hand into a loose fist,
enclosing the thread of coldness he sometimes still felt there.
The Quill scribbled on, capturing his words.
“Now James,” Skeeter chided mildly. “You know as well as I that
Ms. Morganstern is still alive. Reports of her sightings, along with her
Muggle sister Isabella, show up regularly in the press. Surely your father,
and therefore you, hear about even more sightings than the rest of us. And
yet she somehow continues to elude capture. Just last month, in fact, there
were reports that she had appeared in the International Armory of
Forbidden Books and Artifacts. What do you believe she was looking for?
James didn’t have to lie this time. He shook his head. “I don’t have
any idea. I wish I knew.”
“Many believe she is up to something far worse than the Morrigan
Web. You and your family hosted her and considered her a friend. Do you
have any insight into what her plan might be?”
James sighed deeply. He wanted to say that Petra wasn’t the real
enemy, that it was all a diversion created by a terrible watery demoness, an
agent of chaos summoned by a broken magical bargain. He wanted to say
that Petra had cracked the Vow of Secrecy in order to save his father and
prevent further bloodshed. More than anything, he wanted to say that Petra
was beautiful and innocent and the very reason that the Morrigan Web had
been defeated. But the last few years had shown him that it would do no
good. There was an inertia to these things. The world had decided that
Petra was the focus of all villainy—the “She-Voldemort”, as some had
begun to call her—and James now knew that there was no way to reverse
such a tide without getting buried and drowned beneath it.
And after all, in a sense, public opinion was correct about Petra,
albeit in a way that very few could guess: she did carry the last shred of

Voldemort inside her. She was the Bloodline, cursed to bear the last flicker
of the villain’s soul inside her own, even if she had tamed it and forced it
into submission, as she claimed, and James fervently believed.
“I thought this interview was going to be about how young people
like me were adjusting to some new perilous world?” He asked, looking up
into Skeeter’s eyes where she still sat on the edge of the desk.
He expected her to be perturbed but she gave no sign to that effect.
Her smile, in fact, perked a little wider. Behind her, the Quill scratched and
wrote.
“Tell our readers about Headmaster Merlinus Ambrosius,” Skeeter
said smoothly. “There is great curiosity about him. A figure of lore and
legend, he is. Would you say that he lives up to the mythology?”
James nodded, feeling that he was on slightly firmer ground
discussing the headmaster, who was more than capable of handling himself,
regardless of what the press said about him. “He does. He can be a bit
scary sometimes, but never in a bad way. He always comes down on the
right side, and he knows how to keep order, that’s for sure. And he does it
without just piling on reams of rules.”
“You Potters never did much care for rules,” Skeeter smiled. “Isn’t
that right, James?”
James shrugged, feeling slightly bold. “Like the rules about
registering as an Animagus?”
Skeeter’s smile snapped shut like a jewelry box. She glared at him,
her green eyes nearly sparking. Of course, she was registered nowadays.
But if it hadn’t been for James’ Aunt Hermione, Skeeter would likely still
be secretly using her abilities to illicitly eavesdrop and report on delicate
conversations. She glanced back at her Quill and notebook, then briskly
produced her wand and tapped the Quill. It stopped, backed up, and
scribbled out a long line. Then, with a practiced force of will, she turned
back and smoothed her features. She seemed content to change the subject.
“As we said earlier, James, we live in a world where the Vow of
Secrecy crumbles more every day. You were there two years ago when
Hogwarts hosted its first Muggle exchange students, the very spearhead of
the Ministry’s plan to soften the blow to Muggle society, should the veil
between our worlds finally fall. While that program was not considered a
smashing success, more such programs are attempted elsewhere each day.
Do you and your friends support such measures?”

James began to grasp Skeeter’s real reason for the interview. She
had an agenda in mind, as she always did, and she meant to either pressure
him into agreeing with it, or outing himself as its small-minded detractor.
“You said it yourself,” he said, glancing at the window to hide the
mixture of unease and growing anger on his face. “The Hogwarts Muggle
exchange wasn’t tried again after the whole disaster in the Great Hall when
everyone, students and world leaders alike, were almost killed by the
Morrigan Web. That doesn’t give me a load of faith in any other programs
like it. But if you want to know what my ‘friends’ think, there are loads of
them right here on the train. Feel free to ask.”
“I may do that,” Skeeter replied smoothly. “But even without
deliberate programs to manage the revelation, many wizarding spaces are
less secure than ever, despite the Ministry’s efforts to shore them up.
Muggles stumble into formerly unplottable and hidden wizarding spaces
with increasing frequency, requiring the response of ever-more-harried
squads of Obliviators. Elsewhere, there is serious concern that the confines
around sanctuaries for magical beasts have weakened and frayed. There is
legitimate fear that someday the residents of London may awaken to an
Acromantula terrorizing their streets or a sea serpent prowling the Thames.
The Centaurs, it is rumoured, have sensed the degenerating boundaries of
their forests and plan a deliberate incursion into the Muggle world, whether
to serve as ambassadors or claim dominion no one knows for sure. And
yet, many young witches or wizards like yourself consider all of this a good
thing, a sign of progress. Where others see a loss of political power and
potential chaos, they see open doors for cultural exchange, careers, and
commerce in a newly integrated world. Do you agree with them, James?”
James drew a sharp breath to respond, not sure exactly what he was
about to say except that it would be terse and angry and probably exactly
the sort of emotional outburst Skeeter was hoping for, when a shape arose
beyond the window of the door behind the blonde woman, momentarily
distracting him. James recognized the small figure as it ascended slowly
into view, hand-made and ridiculous by design, its cloth head flopping like
a doll’s and its stubby arms waving clumsily in the shifting sunlight.
It was a hand puppet. The Hufflepuffs had been making them ever
since James’ first year, putting on silly shows with them, sometimes in the
great hall at official functions, more often spontaneously from behind tables
in the library or the backs of sofas in common study areas. The

Hufflepuppet Pals, as they called their little troupe, had developed quite a
popular following, even among some of the staff and teachers.
The puppet beyond the glass of the door was the Voldemort figure,
with stitched orange and red eyes, a rather pointed, bald head, and a small,
ridiculous smile. It flopped back and forth as if it was dancing to its own
secret song, a stick of a wand glued to one limp hand.
“James?” Skeeter prompted quizzically. She read the direction of
his gaze, and then glanced back over her shoulder.
The Voldemort puppet (commonly known as Voldy to the other
Hufflepuppet Pals) dipped quickly from view before Skeeter could see it.
She frowned at the empty glass, and then turned back to James.
“I, uh…” James stammered slightly, trying to recollect his thoughts.
“I don’t expect the threats are quite as bad as the newspapers make them out
to be. We’re a long way off from seeing any dragons breaking free into the
Muggle world. Although I suppose it would make a pretty good news story,
wouldn’t it?”
Skeeter tried to hide her disappointment. “No one wants chaos and
mayhem just for the sake of ‘a good news story’, James,” she clucked her
tongue. “But even if the threats of incursions by magical beasts or centaurs
are overblown, what do you think of the prospect of mingling the magical
and Muggle worlds once and for all? Do you agree that it would be a good
thing?”
James let out a breath, his anger diminishing to a sort of bland
impatience. “It wouldn’t be the first time our worlds had been mixed,
would it? And if I know my history, there was a good reason why we
decided to split them up.”
Behind her spectacles, Skeeter’s eyes brightened. “Is that so,
James? What have you been taught about that, then?”
“I’ve been taught the same as everyone else,” James bristled. “A
thousand years ago, the good witches and wizards realized that it was
almost impossible to keep the bad witches and wizards from trying to take
over the Muggle world by force. The temptation was just too great for the
magical people who wanted nothing more than power. And even a lot of
Muggle kings and emperors and villains were willing to hire magical
mercenaries to bully their enemies, to make their armies invincible, to curse
anyone who opposed them. The balance between the magical and Muggle
worlds was too skewed to maintain. So we went into hiding, used our

powers to live in secret among the Muggles, unseen by them. The laws of
secrecy protected the Muggles from the worst of us, and from the worst of
themselves, the ones who would throw the door open for power at any
cost.”
“You’ve learned all of this from Headmaster Merlin, I assume?”
Skeeter asked, cocking her head slightly.
“I learned it from my history books,” James said, raising his
eyebrows challengingly. “From Professor Binns’ classes, ever since my
first year. We all take those lessons. I assume you did, too, at some point.”
Skeeter laughed lightly. “It’s been a long time since my schooling,
I’m afraid,” she waved a hand dismissively. “And yet I do remember
enough to know that Headmaster Merlin features prominently in many of
those ancient stories you reference. A thousand years ago, he himself was
the sort of mercenary wizard who hired himself out to Muggle kings,
willing to curse whomever they wished, willing to feed their sometimes
fanatical desire for power, no matter how it might poison their societies.”
“Yeah,” James admitted, unfazed. He had had the exact same
discussion with Rose on a few occasions. “But he’s different now.
Everyone can see that. Otherwise he’d never have been given the job of
headmaster of Hogwarts. He’s changed since the person he was back then.”
Skeeter was nodding even as James finished his response. “So you
believe that Merlinus Ambrosius can change over a span of a thousand
years,” she suggested, bowing her head to look at him over her spectacles.
“But humanity and wizardkind cannot?”
James sat up in his seat, exasperated, opening his mouth to say that
it was one thing for a single person to change and quite another for the
entirety of human nature, when the Voldy puppet arose slowly into view
again just past Skeeter’s shoulder, again knocking all the words right out of
James’ head.
The Voldy puppet wasn’t alone this time. Next to it appeared the
old headmaster puppet, Dumbledore, complete with tiny spectacles, a
snowy white beard and pointed purple hat. On Voldy’s other side, another
puppet leapt into view, this one with lank black hair and bored hand-drawn
eyes: the Severus Snape figure (inexplicably known to the others as “Snapea-doodle”). Both the Dumbledore and Snape figures clutched blunt
miniature clubs between their stubby arms. They began to pummel the
Voldy figure with classic Punch and Judy vigour.

James tried desperately not to smile, which of course only made the
inexplicable puppet antics immeasurably funnier. A laugh boiled up in his
chest, even as he struggled to hold it in, compressing his lips into a grim,
trembling line.
Skeeter glared at James, her curiosity turning to suspicion, and then
whirled around again.
The Hufflepuppet Pals dropped instantly from view.
“Something interesting in the corridor, James?” Skeeter asked, still
looking back over her shoulder.
“No, ma’am,” James answered perhaps a bit too quickly, unable to
completely hide the laughter in his voice.
She slid an eye slowly back at him, her head still turned toward the
door. Impatient now, she slipped off her perch and stalked to the
compartment door, shuttling it noisily open. She glanced along the corridor
in one direction, and then the other. James watched, waiting for her to
capture whoever it was that was putting on the private performance.
Instead, she merely glanced back at him from the doorway, her eyes
narrowed, as if she expected him of goading her somehow. Clearly,
whoever James’ secret entertainers were, they were no longer present in the
carriage. Again, Skeeter composed her features, closed the door much
more gently than she’d opened it, and returned to the table, now merely
leaning on it.
“A lot of wizarding families,” she said, ignoring the interruption,
“struggle with accepting the idea that their children might choose to pursue
vocations in the Muggle world. One doesn’t need to be of strictly
pureblood heritage to see that many would view this as a step down, a
denial of one’s magical traditions. Do you agree with those of your
generation who believe that such attitudes are outdated and prejudiced? An
outmoded view based on obsolete stereotypes?”
“Look, if you just want me to repeat a bunch of handbill slogans and
Progressive Element posters, I can find one and just read it to you,” James
said, his annoyance finally overriding his sense of propriety. “There are
usually three or four of them on the notice boards, next to the Wanted Witch
posters for Petra Morganstern. You don’t need to talk to me to find the stuff
you want to hear.”
Skeeter’s expression of smug victory was just barely hidden beneath
a mask of wounded shock. “Why James, I’ve no idea what you are getting

at. I’m merely asking you to respond to the concerns of the day, the
concerns that you and your classmates are most affected by--”
“The concerns you most want to pump up to make people as angry
and afraid as possible,” James interrupted, rolling his eyes. “Sure. Fine.
So maybe a bunch of centaurs and giants and beasts will break out of their
weakened boundaries and run through the Muggle streets. Maybe the old
wizarding families are chock full of stuffy, backwards elitists who think the
Muggles are all lower class rabble unworthy of their marvelous magical
kids. And maybe none of it matters because Undesirable Number One,
Petra Morgantstern, will soon wipe us all out with some all new…
doomsday… thingie…” He threw his hands up, growing flustered, but not
losing his head of steam. “What are you doing about any of it? Getting
people all in a lather? Selling fear and worry and suspicion like candy?
Even if all that stuff is true, all you’re doing is making it worse. People like
my dad and Merlin and Denniston Dolohov are working to make it better.
But you’re just adding to the problems. You’re piling rubbish on the people
trying to make a difference. And you,” he shook his head, suddenly
realizing that he’d said far more than intended, not quite wishing he hadn’t,
but knowing he probably soon would. He drew a deep breath and blew it
out, deflating slightly. “You have the gall to stand there and look all
superior about it.”
Behind Skeeter, the Snape, Dumbledore, and Voldy Hufflepuppets
applauded, flailing their limp hands wildly but silently, seeming to leap up
and down behind the glass window. James saw them and felt his cheeks
redden in mingled anger and embarrassment. He’d had an audience for his
final outburst. This reminded him, of course, that soon enough that
audience would encompass most of the magical world.
“Thank you, James,” Skeeter smiled indulgently at him as the
Quick-Quotes Quill finally finished recording his diatribe on the notebook
behind her. “I think we’re done here. Good day.”
When James exited the compartment feeling prickly and disgruntled
and yet somehow perversely satisfied, leaving Skeeter to pack up her Quill
and notebook, he was bemused to see no sign of the Hufflepuppet Pals or
their puppeteers. There was, however, a folded note lying on the floor of
the corridor, flashing in the flickering sunbeams as the train passed through
dense forest. His name was printed on the front in small, flowing script.
He stooped to grab it, thankful that Skeeter hadn’t decided to accompany

him back to his compartment, although even he knew how unlikely that
was.
As he walked, nearly fleeing the staff carriage en route to his own,
he unfolded the parchment and read the short note.
Good on you, James! You put that obnoxious twit in her
place. Thank us later for the well-timed distractions.
Your friend,
Millie and the HufflePuppet Pals
James frowned at the note, blinking. He knew who Millie was.
Millicent Vandergriff was a Hufflepuff seventh-year with whom he’d had a
few passing interactions over the last few years. Blonde and willowy with a
surprisingly silly, quick wit, she had dated Graham Warton briefly late last
term, breaking up with him after only a few weeks and leaving him in a
morosely dejected mood for days. James knew almost nothing more about
her.
Shrugging, curious about Millie but dreading the article that would
likely appear in the next few days in the Daily Prophet, James refolded the
note and stuffed it into his robe pocket.
Considering how everything could have gone if puppet Voldy and
Dumbledore and Snape-a-doodle hadn’t shown up when they did, he
decided that he did probably owe Millie and her friends his thanks the next
time he saw them.

When James returned to his compartment, Albus and Ralph were
tensely focused over Ralph’s traveling chess set, upon which Albus’ few
remaining red pieces were dejectedly mounting a hopeless but stubborn
defense against Ralph’s ivory army. Lily had left to find her friends

elsewhere on the train, and Rose was buried in a thick new book. James
plopped onto his seat, thankful that no one was immediately asking about
his interview with Rita Skeeter. For a minute, he watched the trees and
fields sweep past outside the train.
It occurred to him that he would never again ride the Hogwarts
Express as a student, and a momentary malaise descended over him. He
thought back to his first, nervous ride to Hogwarts, filled with nearly
crippling anxiety about living up to his father’s legendary reputation. A
wan smile came over his face as he recalled his first meeting with Zane, the
unexpected American with his precocious wit and roguish irreverence, and
Ralph, the apparent Muggle-born, filled with apprehension, equipped with
the ridiculously oversized, green-tipped wand.
He replayed his other most memorable moments on the train: his
and Albus’ first confrontation with Scorpius Malfoy, back when Scorpius
had still been full of vim and vigour about becoming a Slytherin, before any
of them knew that it was Albus who would go to the green and silver whilst
Scorpius, amazingly, ended up a Gryffindor; the chasing of the strange
shadow creature, the Borley, and the subsequent encounter with the swarm
of Dementors around the crimson engine. The meeting with the
otherworldly entity known as the Gatekeeper and the nearly disastrous train
ride after, when Headmaster Merlin had miraculously saved the train from
barreling to its doom in Sparrowhawk gorge.
He mused on the many games of Winkles and Augers he had played
with his friends as they travelled back to school, each year more confident,
excited, and eager to face whatever awaited them.
He remembered the giddy anticipation of new school subjects and
experiences, of connecting with old friends and rivalries, of seeing teachers
both beloved and abhorred.
This, he thought again, cautiously probing the concept, was the last
time any of those things would ever happen. James could scarcely
appreciate each passing moment for the sense of sudden melancholy that it
evoked in him. Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry had
transformed from a frighteningly mysterious challenge during his first year
to a deeply familiar old friend as he began his seventh. It had never been
quite real to him that those days would one day end. Now he knew: there
would be only one last train ride, eventually one final night slept in his bed
in Gryffindor tower, one last meal in the Great Hall with his friends and all

the teachers lining the head table on the dais, one last ceremonial school
event in the form of his own graduation.
And then after that, the real world awaited. Much larger and more
exciting and infinitely more challenging than Hogwarts had ever been.
It was a giddy, troubling realization, underlined by the steady
rumble-clack of the train, carrying James inexorably forward into his future,
whether he was ready for it or not.
He turned to Rose and asked what she was reading, not so much
because he was interested, but just to break the tension of his thoughts.
“The second of those Cormelian Blitz detective stories,” Rose
answered eagerly, not taking her eyes from the open pages. “You know, the
female giantess who solves mysteries in old timey Diagon Alley. Written
by professor Revalvier, although under a different name. Much different
from her other stories, I have to say. A little on the violent side. Mum’s
hair would probably stand straight up if she knew I was reading it.” She
licked a finger and turned a page, flicking her gaze over it.
James nodded, already bored with the topic. He let Rose fall back
into her book and decided to get up and wander the train again, ostensibly
in search of the cart lady, but hoping more for distraction than a licorice
wand or a packet of Cockroach Clusters.

2. WINDS OF CHANGE
“First years!” Hagrid boomed, raising his lantern as always, and
summoning the newest students to himself. James spied the half-giant
easily over the heads of the disembarking students as they milled on the
Hogsmeade platform, and the sight gladdened him. “First years, this way to
th’ boats! Step lively now. Yer trunks will be taken direc’ly. Follow me
an’ watch yer step.”
“I wish I could ride the boats again,” Lily commented wistfully
from next to James. “So much better than the carriages, don’t you think?”
The ever-present entourage of her friends cooed and agreed all around.
James stepped away, not wishing to be seen in their company. He was a
seventh-year after all, and was expected to be above hanging out with a
gaggle of middle-year girls. Beneath this, however (although he would
never admit it aloud), he half-resented the easy popularity that his sister had
cultivated over the past few years. She and her friends burbled on, barely
noticing his departure.
Rose was waiting in line for black carriages and the ride up to the
castle. James joined her, waving to Ralph further down the line where he
waited with some of his Slytherin mates. Ralph waved back sheepishly.
He’d been acting a little strangely ever since they’d met on platform nine

and three quarters.
“If I didn’t know any better,” James commented idly. “I’d say
Ralph was up to something.”
“Our Ralph?” Rose clarified, frowning and glancing aside. “Ralph
Deedle? He’s about as cunning as a mint humbug. I wouldn’t count on it.”
The carriage trip up to the castle was a familiar and splendid ride,
with the sun just dipping behind the mountains and painting the clouds with
watercolor pinks, purples and oranges. Against this panorama, Hogwarts
castle loomed, seeming to lean back on its rocky perch, comfortable and
welcoming. Its myriad windows glinted like golden coins flashing in the
bottom of a pool. James found himself crammed into the carriage with
Rose, Morgan Patonia, Ashley Doone, Graham Warton, and Joseph
Torrance.
“Good summer, everybody?” Graham asked blandly, seeming
merely to pass the time. James didn’t answer. On his other side, Joseph
Torrance brightened. “Went to the Hocus Brothers Circus when it came to
Chudley. The levitating acrobats and juggling elephants are great, but
Montague the performing dragon is best of all.”
“What’s he do?” Rose asked from the front seat. Before her, as
always, James could just make out the skeletal shape of the thestral in its
harness, trotting into the shadow of the castle.
“Oh, amazing things,” Joseph enthused. “Aerial stunts through
flying rings, breathing fire to light torches held in bears’ mouths, balancing
a whole team of dancers on its tail. It barely ate any of the people in the
audience, and only stomped one or two of the concession stands. But even
that was just for show, I’m pretty sure.”
“It’s a dangerous thing, dragging dragons around the country these
days,” Morgan sniffed. “I hear the Ministry is cracking down on those sorts
of events, what with all the weakened borders around magical places.”
“I hope not!” Ashley Doone piped up next to Morgan. “I want to
see that show when it comes to Diagon Alley this winter! No way that’s not
secure enough to host a magical circus.”
James sighed to himself, impatient with the topic of magical security
after his interview with Rita Skeeter. Deep down, he didn’t believe things
were as bad as the newspapers and tabloids made them out to be, although
he had an inkling that this might be false hope. His dad didn’t talk of it
much, not because there wasn’t anything to say, James suspected, but

because he didn’t want to worry his family. This was rather worrying in
itself, of course, but it was a bland worry, without specifics, and easier to
forget.
“Did you hear about Damian Damascus and Sabrina Hildegard?”
Rose suddenly asked, turning on her seat to look at James and Graham.
“They dated all summer and just announced their engagement to be
married. Can you believe it? Married!”
“You’re joking,” Graham accused flatly.
Rose shook her head. “Not a bit. Saw the invitation myself. Came
by post just a few days ago. It’s horklump and hemlock themed.”
Graham rolled his eyes grudgingly. “Well, that’s definitely Damien
and Sabrina.”
“Not really all that surprising when you think about it,” Morgan
sighed. “I mean sure, Sabrina’s got a few points on him in the beauty
department, but they were like mortar and pestle all through school. I’m
surprised it never occurred to them before that they were meant to be.”
“But,” James finally spoke up, “they’re not old enough to be
married! I mean, are they?”
Ashley shrugged. “They’re adults, now, at least technically.
Damien’s started himself a nice little alchemical practice in Puddlemere,
and Sabrina’s studying for her curse-breaker certification. Plenty of people
get married young. It’s romantic, I think.”
James’ mind reeled at the idea. To him, Damien and Sabrina were
still fellow mates and Gremlins, albeit graduated now. It didn’t seem
possible that they were already so far along in their grown-up lives that they
were making lifelong commitments and career choices.
Shortly, the conversation drifted on to other topics, including James’
interview with Rita Skeeter. He told them briefly about it, assuring them
that it was no big deal, and would probably barely warrant a few inches on
the back page of the Daily Prophet, which he sincerely hoped, but didn’t
quite believe.
Soon enough the carriage squeaked to a halt in the main courtyard
below the open front doors. James clambered out, along with the rest of the
older students along the line of black carriages, and followed Graham and
Ashley up the steps. Professor McGonagall stood watching next to the
open doors, her face as imperious and grim as always, a parchment unrolled
in her right hand. She peered at it critically, glancing up over her spectacles

as the students passed, one by one.
“Mr. Potter,” she said briskly, flicking her gaze at him, then those
with him. “Misses Patonia and Doone. And you, too, Mr. Warton. Please
make your way to the antechamber behind the Great Hall, and be quick
about it.”
“What,” Graham hesitated. “Are we in trouble already?”
“Not if you do as I say,” the professor answered curtly. “And you as
well, Mr. Deedle.” She nodded to Ralph as he clumped up the steps to join
them. “And no stopping at your tables along the way. I don’t want to see
any biscuit crumbs on the floor of the antechamber when I arrive.” She
eyed Ralph pointedly. “Now hurry on, and take any other seventh-years
with you, should you see any.” With that she dismissed them, returning her
attention to the parchment in her hand.
Rose looked mildly affronted. “Well then,” she huffed lightly.
“Seventh-years only, it seems. See you later then, I guess.”
“I wonder what this is all about?” James muttered as they stepped
into the shadow of the main entrance, heading toward the glow of the Great
Hall and the clatter of gathering students.
“No idea,” Ralph shrugged. “Do you think she’d know if I ate a
biscuit on the way, like? I’m dead starved.”
“I wouldn’t risk it if it was me and my house on the line,” Graham
proclaimed, clapping Ralph on the shoulder. “But it isn’t, so I say go for it,
Mr. Slytherin.”
Ralph didn’t, but as he passed the tables laden with freshly baked
snacks and waiting plates and silverware, it seemed to be a very close
thing. Overhead, as always, the hundreds of floating candles made a
constellation of tiny flames, bright against the darkening sky that appeared
magically imprinted on the rafters and vaulted ceilings. The massive and
ornate rose window at the head of the hall glowed with sunset hues,
spreading its diffuse light over the gathering, chattering, laughing students.
As James threaded through them, making his way along the
Gryffindor table toward the front of the hall, it occurred to him that perhaps
he’d been looking at his return to school from the wrong perspective
entirely. This wasn’t merely the last chapter of his Hogwarts career, after
all. It was the beginning of one final hurrah, a year filled with whole weeks
and months and seasons of new adventures and challenges, untold new
experiences, familiar faces and lifetime memories just waiting to be made.

It didn’t make the melancholy doldrums that he’d felt on the train go away,
but it did balance them against the heady anticipation of the year yet to
come. The current of time would carry him forward into his future whether
he wished it or not. He might as well embrace the journey and enjoy the
ride.
James, Ralph and the rest of the seventh-years climbed the steps to
the dais in a scattered line, skirted the head table where a few teachers were
just beginning to gather and take their seats, and passed through the heavy
wooden door on the right side. James had been in the antechamber only a
few times before, but remembered it well. During his first year, it had been
the sight of Merlin’s interview with Ralph’s father, wherein their true
magical heritage as Dolohovs had come to light. The room looked exactly
the same now as it had then: a collection of chairs and sofas scattered
somewhat haphazardly around a large hearth, currently unlit and gray with
cold ash. Paintings of various pastoral scenes and miscellaneous portraits
surrounded the walls, packed between the pillars that supported the arcade
ceiling. James recognized one of the paintings from the sketches in Ralph’s
antique potions book: a crowded scene representing the coronation of the
first wizarding king, Kreagle. In the far corner of the scene, a dark-robed
figure leaned against a wall, smoking a long pipe and ignoring the
festivities. The figure looked at James as he passed, its eyes distant but
watchful. It was Severus Snape, of course, in one of his many disguised
portrait forms, keeping an eye on the myriad corners and recesses of the
school.
“Anyone know what this is all about?” Trenton Bloch asked,
throwing himself into a high-backed chair and kicking one knee up over the
upholstered arm.
“S’tradition, isn’t it?” replied Julian Jackson, the captain of the
Hufflepuff Quidditch team, seating herself on an ottoman before the cold
hearth and smoothing her skirt primly. “Every year, McGonagall gathers
the seventh-years for a little secret pep talk or something, although they’re
forbidden to speak of it afterward.”
“I never noticed that before,” Ralph commented, frowning.
“Face it, Ralph,” Deirdre Finnegan offered lightly, “What you don’t
notice could fill the great hall from floor to ceiling.”
Behind her, Kevin Murdock snorted a laugh.
Ralph’s frown turned offended as he glared at Deirdre, but James

smiled and nudged him with an elbow.
Millicent Vandergriff stood near Julian Jackson, leaning lightly
against the arm of a sofa. She met James’ eyes and gave a secretive little
smile and wink. James nodded back at her, still smiling. She had changed
her hair over the summer. Her long, straight locks had been trimmed to a
shoulder-length blonde bob that swung lightly whenever she turned her
head. James was less surprised that she had made the change than that he
had actually noticed it. Millie Vandergriff had always been merely a
background face in his world: funny, a little crude, and boisterously loud
from her space at the Hufflepuff table, but generally forgettable. The new
haircut changed her somehow, at least in his mind. For the first time, she
struck him not just as a rather shrill laugh ringing in the halls or a
whispering component of some inexplicable female cabal outside the door
of the girls’ bathroom. Now, suddenly, she was a fairly fetching and
curious girl who had, for whatever reason, taken some nominal interest in
him.
As James watched, she sat down next to Julian and engaged the
other girl in some animated but low-key conversation.
After a few minutes, Professor McGonagall entered, bringing with
her an air of hectic gravity. The room quieted immediately and most of the
students drifted into seats or clustered in knots against the outer pillars. The
former headmistress circumvented the room until she stood with her back to
the dark hearth, her eyes ticking over each face in a quick inventory.
“A few brief words as you enter your final year, students,” she said
with no preamble, pitching her voice low, by her standards. “As you may
imagine, there are certain responsibilities that go with attaining your
seventh year. For better or for worse, you are now the standard bearers for
everything that this school represents. Your younger classmates will look
up to you as examples and role models. Some of you will rise to this
responsibility, and indeed have done so already throughout your terms.
Others,” she paused briefly and flicked her gaze over several faces, peering
at them over her spectacles, “will struggle even to represent your own best
interests, much less those of your fellows. To those who fall into the latter
category, allow me to be perfectly clear: we expect better from you. The
school expects better from you. And you should expect better of
yourselves. You will soon embark on a new journey outside of these
familiar walls, and there you will not find merely docked house points for

flouting rules. Heed me, for this may be the last time anyone offers you this
warning.” She paused meaningfully, letting the weight of her iron gaze
settle over the room like a cold blanket. Then, she softened slightly, raising
her chin and drawing a breath.
“There are, however, certain privileges that accompany these
responsibilities,” she said, almost with a note of reluctance. “I’ll thank you,
as you may guess, not to flaunt these to your younger classmates. Let them
discover them as you are about to now.” She produced a small scroll and
unrolled it in her thin hands, beginning to read: “As per tradition and
administrative decree, seventh-years shall not require special permission to
access the restricted section of the library.”
James blinked and glanced around the room, curious to see if
anyone else found this a particularly exciting privilege. Rose would be
thrilled with it, he knew, but no one else in attendance showed as much as a
raised eyebrow.
“Further,” McGonagall went on, still reading from the scroll,
“Certain classes may be exchanged for an equal length of work in the career
field of your choosing, by arrangement with the headmaster and/or related
professor, not to exceed more than ninety minutes per week.”
This did inspire a response from the gathered students, who glanced
around at each other and stirred in their seats, clearly excited at the prospect
of trading class time for some hands-on experience, perhaps even outside
the school. James glanced aside at Ralph. They had both toyed somewhat
idly with the idea of going into Auror training, more for lack of any other
ideas than a particular passion for the career. Did this mean they could
actually trade class-time for trips to the Ministry of Magic with James’
dad? Could they actually accompany him and his partner, Titus Hardcastle,
on the occasional raid or investigation? It seemed almost too tantalizing to
consider, and yet perhaps it was actually possible.
“The Forbidden Forest is still forbidden,” McGonagall soldiered on,
quelling the sudden hiss of whispers that had erupted around the room.
“However, with the permission of the headmaster, myself, or Professor
Hagrid, you may conduct your own expeditions into the Forest for any of a
list of prescribed purposes, including but not limited to: the gathering of
potion ingredients, observation of certain magical creatures, herbological
gardening and cultivation, and limited recreational activities.
“Additionally,” the professor said, lowering her scroll. “As many of

you may be aware, this castle is endowed with many secret passageways,
hidden chambers, and unmarked amenities. Some of these you will surely
have discovered either by illicit exploration or by word of mouth from less
scrupulous former graduates. What you may have heretofore utilized
secretly and in part, you are now granted full and sanctioned access to.
Tomorrow evening at ten o’clock sharp, after your classmates are confined
to their common rooms and dormitories, Mr. Filch will take you on a tour of
these amenities. You are neither to map these places, record any passwords,
nor share in any way their locations, purposes, or benefits with any other
students.”
Here she met James and Ralph’s eyes, pointedly. “Is that perfectly
clear?”
James nodded, as did the rest of the gathered students. Even as he
did, however, he wondered if this was a promise he could truly keep. He
imagined how Rose would respond if she knew that they had kept such
tantalizing secrets from her. She would probably die of outrage.
“I certainly hope you can abide by these rules,” McGonagall said,
the doubt in her voice deliberately evident. “Because your freedom to use
such amenities is dependent entirely on your ability to keep them secret.
Please do not test me on this.
“Finally,” she went on, now heaving a deep sigh and removing her
spectacles, allowing them to dangle on a fine chain around her neck. “I
have a pronouncement that will likely shock none of you, although as with
everything else said here, I would like very much for you to keep this a
secret until I make my official statement.”
She looked over the crowd of seventh-years again, this time with as
close to a softened expression as ever came over the professor’s stern face.
“I have served both you and this school for many more years than I ever
thought possible. I have been honored to oversee not only your growth and
education, but many of your parents', and even grandparents'. But now, as
mixed a blessing as it will surely be, I find that I am ready to call an end to
my long tenure. This shall be my last year as a member of Hogwarts’ staff.
My cottage and my gardens await, as do my pipe and what remains of my
family. My one and only request of you, students…” Here she shook her
head and, amazingly, the ghost of a wry smile curled her lips, “is that you
make my final term as blissfully uneventful as possible.”
This was met with a ripple of laughter, but as James glanced around

the room he saw many faces showing what he felt: surprise and
uncomfortable dismay. Professor McGonagall was currently the oldest and
most prominent member of the Hogwarts staff. It was difficult even to
imagine a Hogwarts without her presiding over it. Merlin may be the
current headmaster, and he may occupy that post for many decades to come,
but somehow he was merely the brain of the school. Professor Minerva
McGonagall was its heart and soul, despite her eternally stern and stoic
demeanor.
James’ earlier melancholy momentarily blotted his world again,
covering it like a storm cloud obscuring the summer sun. Not just because
he couldn’t imagine Hogwarts without Professor McGonagall, but because,
after his interview with Rita Skeeter and her reminder of all the ways that
the magical world seemed to be disintegrating, he had a deep fear that the
professor’s request for an uneventful final term was doomed even before
the year had begun.
Ashley Doone raised her hand peremptorily. “What will you do,
Professor?” she asked in a small voice.
McGonagall slowly shook her head, still smiling faintly. “I haven’t
the slightest idea, Miss Doone,” she answered. “And that, my dear young
friends… is the most marvelously freeing feeling in the world.”
Sensing an end to the gathering, the students began to stir and
murmur. McGonagall raised her voice once more. “A last order of
business before you go to your house tables,” she said quickly. “Most of
you will likely have learned on the train who your Head Girl and Boy shall
be this year…”
“I only know that it isn’t me,” James muttered, smiling aside at
Ralph. “And hooray for that, despite what my Mum may have wanted.”
“Erm,” Ralph said, looking suddenly uncomfortable.
“This year’s Head Girl,” McGonagall called as the students stood
and drifted restlessly toward the door. “Is Miss Fiona Fourcompass of
Ravenclaw House. And Head Boy shall be Mr. Ralph Deedle, of Slytherin.
I trust that you both have already spoken to this year’s new prefects on the
train, explaining their duties and the parts you shall play in them.”
Ralph nodded solemnly at the professor as James boggled at him,
dumbfounded. “Did it first thing, Ma’am,” he reported. “Just like the letter
said.”
“Why didn’t you tell me?” James rasped as the gathering finally

broke up and bottlenecked at the door. “It was one thing for you to get
prefect back in our fifth year-- I swear it’s taken me this long just to get
used to that! But Head Boy!?”
“That’s why I didn’t tell you,” Ralph rolled his eyes. “I knew you’d
make a big hairy thing out of it.”
“It is a big hairy thing!” James spluttered. “Since when are you
even angling for that kind of responsibility?”
“What do you mean?” Ralph looked slightly wounded. “I’ve always
been the responsible one. All those times you and Zane and Rose were
heading off on half-witted adventures, who was the one hanging back and
being all careful?”
“You weren’t being ‘careful’,” James rolled his eyes. “You were
being scared out of your wits. Not the same thing.”
“Look,” Ralph said, stopping next to the door and turning to look at
James. “You were all worried that when I got prefect all of a sudden I’d be
throwing a damper on your fun. Did that happen?”
“It totally did!” James whispered harshly. “You made us get back
on time every Hogsmeade weekend. You made sure we couldn’t nip off
with the rest of the Gremlins when they had their secret caravan holiday.
You reported to my mum that I’d broken my glasses and nagged me ever
since to wear them in class, just because she asked you to! You even told
Zane to stop popping up at all hours whenever he and the experimental
magical communications crew have a new technique to test out!”
“He woke me up at two in the morning floating over my bed,”
Ralph bristled. “I mean, fun’s fun, but he nearly made me wet myself, I
swear.”
“Promise me this won’t all go to your head, Ralph,” James insisted,
glaring up at the bigger boy.
“It won’t and it hasn’t,” Ralph proclaimed, firming his jaw and
pushing up to his full, prodigious height. A moment later, he slumped back
to his normal posture. “Besides, at least I kept us out of any death-defying
predicaments and earth-shattering plots for two whole years. And you
haven’t even thanked me for that.”
James blew out a breath and relaxed. “I’m not sure how much
credit you can take for that, exactly,” he shook his head.
As they finally pushed their way back into the noise of the Great
Hall and found their seats, James was interested to see the ghost of Cedric

Diggory floating near the head of the Hufflepuff table, regaling the younger
students with some apparently enthralling story. Probably he was
entertaining them with tales of his experiences during the legendary Triwizard Tournament, which was a favorite topic ever since he had become
the official Hufflepuff House Ghost.
“Sometimes I miss the Fat Friar,” Graham commented, grabbing a
handful of rolls from a nearby platter. “Ever since he retired, The
Hufflepuffs have been lording it over us with their dashing new ghost.”
Scorpius shook his head in Cedric’s direction and sneered. “He
certainly is rather windy for a ‘Spectre of Silence’.”
Rose clucked her tongue primly. “Jealousy is such an ugly
emotion. I think it’s wonderful that Cedric has finally found some new
friends and a purpose.” She glanced back at him over her shoulder, and
then deflated slightly as she turned back. “Even if it does only remind us
that Gryffindor doesn’t currently have any house ghost at all.”
“How’s that work, anyway,” Cameron Creevey asked from further
down the table. “I mean, it’s tradition for every house to have one, right?
Slytherin has the Bloody Baron. Ravenclaw has the Grey Lady—”
“It isn’t like we can just order a new ghost from a mail order
catalog,” Graham complained. “But still. It’s a real disappointment,
coming into our last year with no Gryffindor Ghost, even if old Nearly
Headless Nick was a bit of a nutter sometimes.”
“Speaking of last years,” Rose perked up, lowering her voice
conspiratorially and leaning eagerly toward James. “What about your big
meeting with McGonagall? What sort of secrets did she let you in on? You
can tell me!”
James shook his head firmly. “We’re all sworn to secrecy.
Seriously. I’m forbidden from telling you a thing.”
“Come on,” Rose weedled, and then narrowed her eyes slyly. “I
probably already know about it all. I just want to see how much they’ve
finally let you in on.”
“You’ll have to wait until your seventh year,” James replied, raising
his chin in what he hoped was a superior and lofty manner.
Rose rolled her eyes and drew her breath to retort, but at that
moment Professor McGonagall called attention to the annual Sorting
ceremony. James turned his attention to the head table, thankful for the
distraction.

Holding the Sorting hat in her hand over a single wooden stool,
Professor McGonagall called the newest students one by one to the dais.
As they came, each more tentative and nervous-looking than the one before,
the professor lowered the Hat onto their heads and, after either a few
moments or as much as a minute, the Hat would proclaim their new house
in its high, reedy voice. In turn, the houses applauded their newest
members and welcomed them to their tables.
As James watched, he could scarcely believe how young the first
years looked. He was on the other end of that spectrum now—to their eyes,
he was surely the impossibly older and worldly-wise seventh-year. He
remembered being in their shoes, thinking how much taller and more
grown-up the seventh-years looked. If only he’d known then what he knew
now: that seventh-years weren’t really any more confident or aloof than
first years. They’d just had several more years practice at pretending to be.
Again, James remembered Professor McGonagall’s proclamation in
the antechamber. This, incredibly, was her last Sorting ceremony. Who
would take over for her next year? Merlin, perhaps? Or one of the other
longer-term teachers, like Professor Flitwick or even Neville Longbottom?
As hard as he tried, he simply could not imagine anyone else holding the
Hat by its tip, reading off the names in that clipped, stern voice.
And then another rather dismaying thought occurred to James: the
Sorting Hat had not sung a song before its duties this year.
It was tradition that the Hat would regale the waiting students with
some possibly amusing, possibly profound lyric that it had concocted
between its annual duties. And yet during James’ first year it had not
provided its customary tune. Nor, it seemed, did it plan to this year. Of
course, as James had thought once before, after so many centuries of
service, one could forgive the Hat for taking the occasional year off. But it
struck him as especially troubling that, for whatever reason, his first and
last years would be marked with no such musical diversion.
As the Sorting finally finished and Professor McGonagall took the
Hat back with her to the head table, the entire Great Hall gave a round of
hearty applause, half in welcome of their new housemates, and half in
celebration that the night’s official proceedings were nearly over and they
could all soon go to their respective common rooms for less formal First
Night merriments. The only unfinished detail was the official start-of-term
announcement from Headmaster Merlin, which James knew from

experience would be brief and very much to the point.
“I hear Ralph was named Head Boy,” Rose whispered in James’ ear
as the applause filled the hall. “Are you jealous?”
James glanced back at his cousin, certain that she was joking. Her
raised eyebrows and knowing half-frown told him that she was not.
“Of course I’m not jealous,” James shook his head fervently.
“That’s stupid. Why would anyone want to be Head Boy?!”
“Nobody becomes Head Boy or Girl because they want to be,” Rose
whispered as the applause died down. “They do it because of the people
who want it for them, and the expectations that it confirms. People expect
Ralph to have ambitions because his dad is a big deal at the Ministry these
days. But so is yours, if you hadn’t noticed.”
The room fell to silence on Rose’s last words, preventing any reply
from James. All of a sudden, he didn’t know what his reply would be
anyway. He frowned at Rose, but she merely looked past him, turning her
attention to the headmaster as he took the ornate golden podium.
Somewhat disgruntled, James turned around to watch as well.
“Greetings, students,” the big man proclaimed in his deep, rumbling
voice, towering over the podium in his golden dress robes, his beard
combed and gleaming with the exotic oil he wore in it for formal
occasions. His heavy gaze roamed over the gathered students, marking
each face. “And welcome to an all new year of lessons, camaraderie, and
sport at Hogwarts school of Witchcraft and Wizardry. For new students, I
am Headmaster Merlinus Ambrosius. I will save us all much time and
attention by stating, as always: you may look to your older classmates to
inform you of how we do things here on a day-to-day basis. That is their
duty and honor. Make use of the resources granted you, and if any should
refuse you or lead you astray, you shall inform me personally so that I may
show them the error of their ways. Our general rules are few but carefully
enforced: the Forbidden Forest is forbidden for a reason. If you break this
rule, the result will be at the very least instructive, so long as it is not
deadly. Curfew is ten of the clock on school nights, eleven-thirty on
weekends and holidays. Our dear caretaker Mr. Filch has been authorized
to carry out whatever punishments he deems fit for those who ignore this
schedule, and you should be under no illusions about the creativity he is
wont to employ in carrying out his duties.”
As the headmaster spoke, he nodded toward the rear of the room,

where Filch stood, as usual, near the main doors, slowly stroking the head
of the ancient Kneazle cat curled in his arms. Filch offered a confirming
nod that was more scowl than smile. James had learned over the past two
years that, amazingly, Filch and Merlin were very nearly blood-brothers in
their approach to law and order. Merlin kept the old caretaker in check
mainly by giving him free rein in the small responsibilities that were
granted him.
“To conclude,” the headmaster went on, lowering his chin to peer
intently at the gathered throng. “You will have noticed, perhaps, a few
changes in our staff during the summer. Our much respected charms
teacher, Professor Filius Flitwick, has finally succumbed to the demands of
his muse, choosing to spend the remainder of his years in pursuit of his art
and the perfect cup of oolong tea. He shall still grace us with his presence
on certain special occasions. In the meantime, however, I trust you will
offer a sincere greeting to your new charms teacher, Professor Donofrio
Odin-Vann, himself a graduate of these esteemed halls, and a valued new
member of our teaching staff.”
Tepid, confused applause washed over the room as heads craned to
find the new teacher at the staff table. James was fairly shocked to discover
that the new charms teacher appeared to be the young man he had glimpsed
earlier that day on the train. He stood tentatively from the end of the table,
smiling thinly and lifting one hand in an appreciative wave. He wore shortcropped dark hair and a tidy little pointed goatee that, on almost any other
man, would have looked malevolently wicked. On him, however, it looked
merely forced and contrived, rather like the young professor was trying just
a bit too hard to cultivate a dashing image. James liked him, despite his
obvious youth and discomfort. Or perhaps even because of it.
“And with that, students,” Merlin proclaimed, raising both of his
slab-like hands, “The official portion of the start of term festivities are
concluded. You may feel free to finish your meals and repair to your
dormitories, where I am quite sure--”
A sudden and wholly unexpected thumping sound echoed through
the room, emanating from the tall wooden doors at the rear of the hall.
Merlin paused, his brow lowering slightly at the interruption. For a
moment, stony silence filled the hall. And then the doors thudded again as
someone seemed to knock on them from the outside, the noise amplified by
the natural acoustics of the Hall. At the sound, the doors eased open, as if

pushed tentatively from the outside.
Filch watched brightly, his gaze alert and careful, stepping aside as
the doors began to creak open.
Revealed behind them, eyes wide and worried behind a pair of
chunky black eyeglasses, was a middle-aged man dressed in a pink polo
shirt and blue jeans beneath a light jacket. His right fist was raised in a
knocking gesture. Next to him was a portly woman with a mass of
voluminous brown hair and a purse slung protectively over one shoulder.
Two children stood behind her, a boy and a girl, one each peeking from
around her prodigious hips.
“I’m sorry,” the man said, his adenoids turning the phrase into a
nasally echo around the suddenly silent Hall. “The missus and I… we seem
to have gotten just a wee bit lost. We saw the, um, lights of this domicile
from below, and the missus, she suggested we pop up and… er… ask
directions.”
Every eye in the room stared back in complete, astonished silence.
Merlin himself seemed, perhaps for the first time since James had ever met
him, utterly at a loss for words.
The spectacled man drew a breath and looked around, clearly trying
to make sense of the scene before him, and failing miserably.
“Can any of you,” he asked querulously, clearing his throat against
the echo of his own words, “point us properly in the direction of the Lakes
of Killarney? Only, we have reservations for seven o’clock, see, and…”
His voice finally trailed away as the strangeness of the sight finally
overwhelmed him.
Hovering near the end of the Hufflepuff table, Cedric Diggory’s
ghost noticed the man’s wife staring at him, her eyes so wide that the whites
were visible all the way around. Her fingers trembled at the base of her
throat. Her lips quivered in a tiny frown of speechless shock.
“Boo?” Cedric said, raising a hand and waggling his fingers at her.
Ponderously, the woman keeled over backwards in a dead, heavy
faint.
“It appears, Mr. Caretaker,” Merlin finally said in a wholly different
voice than before, eyeing Mr. Filch where he still stood next to the rear
doors. “That we have rather unexpected Muggle guests. Please, let us
make sure that they feel perfectly… at home.”

3. THE MIDNIGHT SUMMIT
There was no official obliviator on staff at Hogwarts, but Merlin
was more than equipped for the task, with his otherworldly powers and his
weirdly hypnotic staff, its carven runes glowing with faint blue light.
Students were hastily dismissed and instructed to proceed directly to their
common rooms while the headmaster, with the assistance of Professors
McGonagall and, curiously, Trelawney, revived the fainted woman and
placed the four confused Muggles into a sort of walking trance. They were
still alert enough to look vaguely around at the students and living paintings
and moving stairways, but when they spoke, it was in dull, dreamy voices.
James, along with a knot of wide-eyed students, watched from the landing
beneath the Heracles window as Merlin and the professors led the family
back to the open main doors. Beyond them, a small brown car was parked
in the darkness of the courtyard, its headlamps still on and its engine
puttering dutifully.
“A school, you say,” the Muggle woman said, blinking vapidly up at
Merlin.
“Oh yes,” he replied with a comforting smile. “But don’t you
concern yourself with that, my dear lady. Soon you and your delightful
family will be en route to your destination. We can show you the way.
Quite simple, really. You shall have a wonderful holiday, and you’ll forget

you were ever here or met any of us.”
“Who did we meet?” the man asked a little blearily, looking aside at
his wife with furrowed brow.
“Oh, that nice older fellow at the petrol station,” she said, with just a
hint of uncertainty in her voice. “When we stopped for directions. He was
so helpful, wasn’t he?”
The man nodded as he stepped out into the dark courtyard,
accompanied by Professor Trelawney on one side, Professor McGonagall
on the other.
The two children, each no older than ten, followed along, eyes wide,
absorbing everything in sight. James knew how Merlin’s forgetting spells
worked. By the time the family got back onto the main highway, their
memories of Hogwarts would have faded to a breath of a dream, completely
ephemeral, unrooted from reality. The children would remember it slightly
better, since young memories, James knew, are both more firmly rooted and
far more detailed. But no one believed kids when they talked of moving
staircases, floating candles, or mysterious castle-schools looming out of the
untracked Scottish countryside. For once, James was glad of that otherwise
unfortunate truth.
“Go on with you, now,” Filch called up the stairs in a hushed growl.
“This don’t concern none of you lot. Do as the headmaster said, and be
quick about it.” With that, the caretaker hurried on toward the open doors, a
paper map folded under one arm and, strangely, a red plastic travel mug
clutched in his right hand. The mug steamed faintly and left the aroma of
coffee in the cool air of the entrance hall. Props, James knew, conjured to
both help the Muggle family find their way to their destination and confirm
the planted memory of a helpful petrol station visit.
“What if more Muggles wander up to the castle?” Cameron Creevey
asked breathlessly, still watching from the landing alongside James, Rose,
and Scorpius. The boy sounded as excited about the prospect as he did
worried.
“Merlin will cast a new unplottability charm over the grounds,”
Rose said impatiently, turning to tramp up the stairs. The rest followed her,
sensing that the show, as it were, was mostly over. “The only reason those
people got through is that no one knew how weak the old boundary had
finally gotten. There’s no way to test these things, really.”
“Makes me wonder, though,” Cameron said, taking the steps two at

a time to catch up to Rose and James. “That Muggle reporter you told me
about from your first year, James? Martin Prescott? Maybe that’s partly
how he was able to get through to the school. He followed the signal from
Deedle’s gaming device, but maybe the unplottability spell was weak even
then, letting him through?”
James didn’t want to think about that particular adventure. Martin J.
Prescott was still presenting news stories on Muggle television, still
working for a program called Inside View which seemed to specialize in
celebrity gossip and dubious tales of two-headed bat babies or faces of
saints being miraculously burnt onto toast. James didn’t want to admit it,
but he was quite certain that Prescott had gotten through the school’s
unplottability by a technological loophole and sheer bloody-mindedness,
not any weakening of the school’s ancient secrecy spells. No, the
weakening was part of the chain-reaction caused when Petra Morganstern,
with the help of her sister Izzy, had broken the veil of secrecy in Muggle
New York almost three years earlier.
He glanced aside at Rose and saw the same thought on her face.
She understood the magic of it all even better than him. The baseline power
of all secrecy spells was the fact that Muggles didn’t want to believe in
magic, not deep down. It was too shocking and weird. It upset the
comfortable house of cards that their perception of the world was built on.
And that, unfortunately, was what Petra had changed. She had thrust a new
reality on them, if briefly and in part. And now, bit by bit, the Muggle
world was waking up to a new reality. The spells of secrecy were
weakening because, for the first time in a thousand years, and perhaps not
even by choice, the Muggles were willing to believe.
Allowing Cameron’s conjecture to hang unanswered in the air,
James followed Scorpius and Rose through the portrait hole and into the
waiting common room, which, despite the strange events of the evening,
was as boisterous and cheerful as any other First Night. Unsurprisingly, the
bust of Godric Gryffindor bobbed and swooped through the upper recesses
of the room like a drunken bumblebee, propelled by the wands of several
competing students in a game of Winkles and Augers. Cheers and jeers
rang out jovially. Illicit bottles of butter beer and platters of Honeydukes’
sweets (compliments of George Weasley, as per recent tradition) decorated
every table. The crackle and glow of the fireplace warmed the crowded
room as James threaded his way in, breathing a deep sigh of relief. In a

constantly changing world, he thought, the Gryffindor common room, at the
very least, was always the same.
“See you in an hour?” Rose said quietly, sidling close to James and
Scorpius. “Same place as usual?”
James nodded.
Scorpius shrugged noncommittally, reaching for a bottle of butter
beer on a tray and drifting toward the gathering of Winkles and Augers
players.
It had become rather a ritual on First Night for the past few years,
the secret little midnight summit wherein James and a few trusted friends
reported and discussed any important clandestine happenings over the
summer. None of them referred to it as such, but James had begun to think
of it as a pale, yet somehow significant, shadow of the old Order of the
Phoenix. He didn’t know if he looked forward to the annual meetings,
exactly, but this year, unlike the last two, he thought he might finally have
something interesting to report.
That would come later, however. For the moment, he threw himself
into the happy noise and welcoming familiarity of one of his favorite
places.
Next to the fire he spotted his sister Lily with her constant cadre of
friends, Chance Jackson, Marcus Cobb, and Shivani Yadev. Shivani’s
brother Sanjay, who had just been sorted into Gryffindor house thirty
minutes before, hovered nearby, glancing around with nervous happiness.
Beneath one of the night-dark windows, 6th and 5th years Walter Stebbins
and Xenia Prince, who had begun dating late last term, sat nearly nose to
nose on the sofa, smiling and batting eyes at each other in low conversation,
barely noticing the Winkles and Augers match waging furiously over their
heads. And seated on either side of one of the study tables near the girls’
dormitory stairs, Graham Warton and Deirdre Finnegan were heatedly
debating a list of names on a parchment between them.
James knew without asking that the list was a potential lineup for
this year’s Quidditch team. He drew a deep breath, grabbed a butter beer of
his own from a nearby table, and decided to join them, knowing what was
to come.
“And there he is,” Deirdre glanced up pointedly. “First, we’ve got
Muggles in the Great Hall. And now, James Potter’s name on a Quidditch
roster. Could things get any stranger?”

“What will it be this year?” Graham cocked his head as James
plopped onto a chair. “Are you expecting to get inducted into the Harriers
the night before tryouts? Or do you have a conflicting follow-up interview
with Rita Skeeter and maybe the Minister of Magic?”
James rolled his eyes, knowing he had no choice but to endure
Deirdre’s and Graham’s derisive ribbing. “None of that will happen this
year. I promise.”
“You promised the same thing at this very table last year,” Deirdre
said, drooping on her chair. “What was it then? Dragon pox?”
“Scrofungulus, if you must know,” James sighed. “Caught it on
Hagrid’s field trip to see the swamp mokes. Couldn’t move my neck or
swallow anything larger than an Every-Flavour Bean for a week. It was
miserable, thank you very much.”
“And the year before that?” Graham said, frowning and rubbing his
chin in mock consternation. “You actually made it to the tryouts, if I recall,
but you…?”
“Crashed your broom into one of the goal rings,” Deirdre nodded.
“I’d broken my glasses,” James interjected defensively. “I did my
best anyway! It’s not my fault I can’t see for distance without them.”
Graham sighed and raised his chin to peer across the room. “It’s a
good thing that we’ve got that sister of yours as Keeper. It would be
terrible bad luck not to have a Potter on the Gryffindor team. Do you
suppose she’ll make tryouts this year, Deirdre?”
“She’s never missed one so far,” Deirdre answered. “Not that
there’s any question she’ll be on the team again, same as the last few years.
She’s a natural.”
James waited a beat and then raised his eyebrows patiently. “Are
you done giving me a hard time? Because I’m not going to miss tryouts
this year. It’s my last chance to make the team and I won’t miss it for
anything.”
Deirdre nodded and returned her attention to the hand-written
roster. “That’s good, because see this empty spot right here?” She tapped
the bottom of the parchment. “That’s where Geoffrey Rook should be, only
he graduated last year, and he was the best seeker in a decade. You up for
filling his giant shoes?”
James nodded and firmed his chin. “I am. I’ve been practicing all
summer. And I’ve spent the last two years keeping at the top of my game

on the Night Quidditch League.”
“Oh, don’t remind me!” Graham exclaimed, drawing a hand over his
face in annoyance. “You and that gang of midnight hooligans are a total
embarrassment to the sport. I hear they let you ride one of those idiotic
American scriff things when you play!”
James had forgotten how much Graham hated the marginally secret
nighttime Quidditch matches. “It’s called a skrim, actually--”
“Not another word!” Graham’s eyes blazed. “I swear, I’d report the
lot of you if I didn’t think most of the teachers already know about it and
just pretend not to.”
“Longbottom’s gone to a few of the matches,” Deirdre commented
with a shake of her head. “He’s the one what grows the herb they all take
so as to skip a night’s sleep. Somnambulis, it’s called.”
“Discipline,” Graham declared, perking up in his seat and meeting
Deirdre’s eyes fiercely. “That’s what’s missing from this school these
days! Some good old-fashioned discipline! Squash all this Night Quidditch
nonsense. Distracts everybody from the real thing, it does.”
James shrugged and bobbed his head, knowing it was best just to
keep quiet.
Thankfully, at that moment Walter Stebbins and Xenia Prince chose
to interrupt the discussion, slipping into two chairs side by side.
“What do you all think of the new Charms teacher?” Xenia asked in
a hushed voice, leaning over the table and brushing her short dark hair out
of her face.
“Looks like he’s barely older than I am,” Graham said, still
bristling. “If he’s old enough to buy a Firewhiskey at the Triple Sticks I’ll
eat a bludger.”
“He’s twenty-five,” Deirdre sniffed. “I asked Professor Shert. He
graduated the year before we started. That means Ted, Damien, and
Sabrina all knew him. At least a little.”
“We should ask them about him next time we see them,” Graham
suggested darkly. “Maybe they’ve got some dirt on him. Can’t hurt to
know a few dark secrets about any new teachers if they come in all eager to
prove their mettle.”
James shrugged. “He seemed decent enough to me. I don’t get the
idea that he plans to make life hard on anyone. Seemed to me like he’s still
figuring out how to look like a teacher, much less be one.”

“I’ll miss old Professor Flitwick,” Xenia said with a sigh, glancing
sadly down at the table. “He was my favorite.”
Next to her, Walter nodded solemnly. James tried not to roll his
eyes. He had a suspicion that Walter would respond the same way if Xenia
suggested there were a flock of fuchsia ducks living on the moon.
Slightly less than an hour later, James, Rose, and Scorpius met
Ralph and Albus beneath a torch in one of the older sections of the castle.
It had been a dour, if confusing walk through the night-time halls. Rose and
Scorpius, James now knew, were officially seeing each other again,
although, as always, it was a brittle and tempestuous union. At the moment,
for reasons James couldn’t guess, they were once again not talking to each
other, leaving him to walk in chilly silence between them. It was probably
for the best, since they were not really supposed to be out of their
dormitories this late, although curfews didn’t formally begin until the next
night.
“We tried to open it,” Ralph whispered as James finally, gratefully,
joined him and Albus, “But it never works for us.”
“It never works for you,” Albus corrected. “It works for me just
fine, but it always opens on a room full of chamber pots.”
“Step aside,” Rose said stiffly. “Your problem is that you don’t have
enough imagination.”
Ralph backed away obediently, giving Rose room to stalk purposely
along the corridor before him. She turned after a few paces, retracing her
steps.
“What I need,” she said with careful emphasis, “is a room to meet in
secret, where nobody like Filch can get in, where no one can overhear us,
including any disguised portraits, and where nothing we say can ever be
repeated.”
She turned again, following her steps a second time.
“What I also need,” she added, dropping her voice to a seething
stage-whisper, “is a boyfriend who doesn’t trip over himself every time
Fiera Hutchins so much as glances in his direction.”
“And here we go again,” Scorpius drawled wearily. “You can give
it a rest any time, you know.”
Ralph looked mildly perplexed. “I don’t think that’s the sort of
thing you’re going to find in the Room of Requirement.”
As Rose finished pacing, a door suddenly appeared where only

blank stone wall had been a moment before. She glanced challengingly
from Ralph to Scorpius, and then turned to the door, pushing it open and
breezing inside.
As Scorpius entered, she glanced back with mock disappointment.
“I guess Ralph is right after all,” she said archly. “The Room of
Requirement can’t provide everything I need. Because here you are.”
“Honestly, Weasley,” Scorpius said, glancing languidly around the
small room, and James could tell by the use of her surname that this
wouldn’t end well. “I was merely being friendly to Fiera when I met her in
the Great Hall. But if you’re jealous of her, you could always just ask for
her help with, say, a little makeup and a new hairstyle.”
Rose’s cheeks went brick red. “A little makeup!? She wears
enough for the two of us! For the whole school! But if that’s what you
like… some haughty, made-up, Slytherin drama queen…!”
“I think I liked your angry silence better,” James muttered,
unslinging his knapsack onto the small table in the centre of the room.
“Why’s it always either cold shoulder or heated words with you two?”
Albus plopped into the chair furthest from the door, beneath the
broad silvery frame of a Foe-glass. “Reminds me of why I continue to
prefer the life of a free-wheeling bachelor.”
Fuming, the set of her face indicating that she had, for the moment,
righteously burned off the excess of her anger, Rose lowered herself into the
chair next to Albus. “You’re a bachelor,” she offered, “because no selfrespecting girl can bear that you constantly smell like toad putty and swamp
boot.”
“I have a natural musky scent,” Albus shrugged breezily. “Comes
from being too busy at the manly arts to worry about primping in a mirror
all day.”
“It also comes from sleeping in the same clothes for a week straight
through the summer,” James suggested.
“And from thinking a bath is interchangeable for another splash of
dad’s aftershave,” Lily said, hurrying through the door and dropping onto
the chair opposite Rose. “Sorry I’m late everyone. What did I miss?”
“Nothing so far,” Ralph sighed, settling into his own chair between
Scorpius and Rose. “Except another row between these two and some
unwelcome insights into Albus’ nonexistent love life.”
“Look who’s talking, Deedle,” Albus said, favoring Ralph with a

piercing look. “When’s the last time you had a date?”
“I go on dates,” Ralph shrugged. “I just don’t spend all the rest of
my time gassing on about them.”
Lily whispered loudly in Rose’s direction: “He’s got a thing for his
Head Girl, I hear.”
“That’s more ambition than amour,” Scorpius glanced aside at
Ralph. “He’s become quite the social climber, our Ralph. Finally living up
to his House assignment.”
“You’re all full of Doxie-doo,” Ralph shook his head. “You don’t
know anything about me. I probably shouldn’t even be here, now I’m Head
Boy. If one of those Snape portraits sees me on the way back to the
dungeons…”
“Just tell him you were spying out the rest of these sneaks,” a new
voice suggested in an unmistakable American accent. “That’s the sort of
double-dealing duplicity the Snapester likes best. And don’t pay any
attention to the rest of these malcontents, Ralphinator. I think it’s killer you
made Head Boy. Way to go!”
James smiled at the rectangular piece of mirror he had removed
from his knapsack and propped on the table. In it, a blonde boy’s face
could be seen, speaking from the depths of what appeared to be a mound of
dirty laundry and candy wrappers. The mirror was one of the remaining
Shards of Merlin’s legendary Amsera Certh, now broken up and reduced to
its most basic uses. At one time, Merlin had been able to spy on
conversations held via the Shard, but since then the sorcerer had
deliberately destroyed his own portion (much to his evident
disappointment), vowing never again to subvert the Shard for his own
espionage.
“Easy for you to say, Zane,” James said with a shake of his head.
“You don’t have to put up with Ralph second-guessing every decision
against the Hogwarts Handbook of Student Conduct.”
“Hi Zane,” Lily piped up, craning on her chair to see the boy in the
Mirror. “How’s life back at Alma Aleron?”
“Same as always in most ways,” Zane bobbed his head.
“Complicated and worrying in others. The Time-lock is getting a little
wonky as the unplottability spell around the outer wall frays like an old
scarf. Little chunks of the school keep breaking through into Muggle
basements and attics all around Philadelphia, popping up like bubbles.

Professor Jackson says he has a solution in the works, but for now we’ve
had to restrict the Time-lock to the century before the city of Philadelphia
was founded, just to be safe.”
“Things are getting tetchier around here as well,” Ralph said
soberly. “We just had a Muggle family join us in the Great Hall, just as
Merlin was finishing up his start-of-term speech.”
“No!” Zane’s eyes widened. “How’d they get in?”
“Just drove their car right up into the courtyard,” James said, his
shoulders slumping. “They were lost and looking for directions.”
Uncharacteristically, Zane looked worried. “I’m sure old Merlin
was up to the task of wiping their memories and sending them on their way,
right?”
“And setting up a refreshed unplottability field around the school,”
Rose said. “But yes. It’s a concern. Things are unraveling in ways no one
can really predict. And there doesn’t seem to be much anyone can do about
it.”
“Which brings us to why we’re all here,” Scorpius said somewhat
impatiently, leaning back in his chair and raising his eyebrows. “For
whatever it’s worth, we’re the few who may have some idea of who is
really behind all of this. Meaning, of course, Judith, this very secretive
Lady of the Lake person. And Petra Morganstern, our very own
Undersirable Number One. Not that we’ve heard more than a peep from
either over the last few years.”
“No news for two whole years,” Lily blew a breath up into her
blonde fringe. “How do we know that Judith, the Lady of the Lake, is even
still out there? Maybe she gave up and went back to whatever dimension
she came from?”
James shook his head firmly. “Judith’s not the type just to give up.
The more ground she loses, the harder she fights. But we know she’s still
out there, working behind the scenes, letting everyone blame Petra for her
plans.”
“I still don’t understand how anyone can blame Petra for what
happened with the Morrigan Web,” Lily said, her brow darkening. “Loads
of us were there when it happened. We saw Judith and her fighting!”
“We did see it,” James agreed sourly, “But hardly anyone seems to
remember it right. Judith has a sort of slippery quality about her that makes
most people forget about her the moment she’s out of sight. Even the

people that do sort of remember her are afraid to admit it. Don’t you see?
People prefer blaming Petra. She’s the villain that they know. It’s less
complicated, and somehow more comforting that way.”
Rose nodded. “That’s why the consequences of her plan are still
unfolding everywhere around us.”
“And how do we know that?” Scorpius asked, cocking his head.
“Because you’ve got Muggles showing up in the Great Hall,” Zane
replied from the Shard. “That’s evidence that Judith’s plan, her version of
our destiny, is still in play. Because the Crimson Thread is still stuck in our
world, not the one it belongs to. The Thread is like a rock in the gears of
our world’s destiny. As long as it’s here, things will continue to break down
more and more over time.”
“And the Crimson Thread,” Scorpius said, doubt creeping into his
voice, “is Petra Morganstern, according to you lot.”
James sighed. “We’ve been over this. When Judith brought the
other dimension’s version of Petra into our world through the Vault of
Destinies, then killed her here, that version of Petra—the Morgan version—
became a part of our universe. Now, our Petra is the new Morgan. The
Crimson Thread plucked from the Loom represents her. She believes that
the only way to set things back to rights, to get our own original destiny
back, is for her to take Morgan’s place in that other dimension, Morgan’s
version of our world, restoring the balance.”
Lily nodded tentatively. “And the fact that the Vow of Secrecy is
still coming apart is a sign that she hasn’t succeeded in doing that yet.”
“Judith doesn’t want her to,” Ralph said. “Petra’s her toe-hold in
our world. If Petra replaces the Morgan from that other dimension, not only
do the destinies snap back into place, Judith gets sent back to whatever
netherworld she came from. She’ll do anything to make sure Petra doesn’t
do that.”
Scorpius looked doubtful. “Two years is a long time. How can we
be certain that both of them are even still alive?”
“Petra was just in the news a few weeks ago,” Albus said, staring
reflectively into a dark corner. “She apparently broke into some top secret
armory of forbidden artifacts and books, looking for something. One of the
guards saw her.”
Lily shrugged uncertainly. “He could have been mistaken. Petra’s
posters are up everywhere. The guard might have just seen some woman in

the dark and assumed it was her.”
“It was her,” Albus replied with unexpected conviction, still staring
into the corner. James watched his brother, narrowing his eyes.
“Well then,” Scorpius said briskly, sitting up again in his seat. “That
does bring us to the point.” He glanced around the room, looking from face
to face. “Have any of us seen or heard from Petra since last we met? Any
word at all?”
Every eye in the room turned silently to James. It was Zane who
prompted him from the Shard. “What do you say, James? You’re the one
with the magic mind-meld to our favorite misunderstood villainess. How
sure are you that she’s still out there? And that she really is the new
Crimson Thread?”
James drew a long, deep breath, and then looked down at his right
hand where it still lay on the table. He opened it, palm up.
“She’s blocking me, somehow,” he said reluctantly. “I can feel it.
But I don’t know why.”
“Really,” Scorpius said sarcastically, rolling his eyes again. “You
have no idea, do you?”
“And I suppose you do?” James challenged, looking Scorpius in the
eye.
“Now, now. Don’t let me steal your thunder. Although I am rather
curious how you can be so certain of Morganstern’s plans if she has
apparently turned off your mysterious third eye into her thoughts.”
James deflated a little. “I could never read her thoughts, you know
that. I just got glimpses into her dreams sometimes, through the cord that
connects us. I don’t understand it any more than you do. But up until
recently, no matter how far apart we were, if I concentrated on that cord, I
could sort of send my thoughts out on it, to wherever she was, and get an
inkling. A mood, maybe. Or just a sort of fuzzy image. No words. No
complete thoughts, unless she’s very close. Usually just… feelings.”
Zane frowned from the Shard. “But not anymore?”
James shook his head slowly. “No. She’s still there. I know that
much. But she’s shutting me out. She’s blocking her end. She doesn’t
want me to know what she’s doing.”
Lily furrowed her brow. “Well, that’s rather worrying. Don’t you
think?”
Albus made a scoffing noise and studied his own hands on the

table. “Petra’s shutting James out because he’s a nervous busybody who’s
all besotted with love, not thinking about whatever’s best for the whole
world. Just his poor little ‘Astra’.”
“It was him that said it,” Scorpius observed quickly, raising an
eyebrow. “Not me. I only thought it.”
James flopped forward and rested his chin on his crossed forearms.
“You’ve said it enough in the past, I expect.”
“I think it’s very sweet,” Rose smiled. “Even if it is perhaps a bit
hopeless and tragic.”
“It’s not tragic,” James said, pushing back in his chair again.
“You’re all daft. I care about Petra, yes. But I’m not just thinking of her.
I’m thinking of the whole world. In fact…” He paused and drew a deep
breath, considering what he was about to say. In a lower voice, he went on.
“I think her plan is probably for the best. Even if it does mean… that she’ll
leave our world forever.”
After a long, silent moment, Scorpius looked around the table.
“Well, then. That is rather a change of heart.”
James refused to meet anyone else’s gaze. “There’s just too much
going wrong. Too much at stake to worry about just one girl’s life.” Even
if, he thought, but didn’t say, that one girl is Petra Morganstern.
“That does leave one lingering question, though,” Rose said on the
heel of a reluctant sigh. “If Petra is blocking your connection to her, how
do you know that this is still her plan? To replace the other version of
herself, the Morgan version, from that other dimension? How do you really
know that Petra has become the new Crimson Thread?”
James finally looked up. Without a word, he raised his right hand,
palm up, fingers splayed. Slowly, he half-closed his eyes and began to
concentrate.
He imagined Petra. In his mind and heart, he felt the ephemeral
cord that bound him to her, that had connected them ever since that fateful
moment on the Gwyndemere, when Petra had asked James to let her fall to
her doom in the waves, and James had refused. The cord was a cool ribbon
that rooted in his very heart, ran down his arm, and condensed on his palm
like a ball of ice. From there, it wafted away into the space between them,
extending and thinning, to wherever Petra was at this very moment.
She was blocking him. He could sense the pressure of her pushing
back against him. It was frustrating. But it also meant, if nothing else, that

she was thinking of him.
James opened his eyes again and looked down at his open hand.
The others in the room did as well, eyes wide, speechless and spellbound.
The cord was transparently visible in the darkness, brightest and
thickest in the centre of James’ palm, fading and thinning upward in a
shimmering ribbon, a thread that drifted up into darkness, not ending, just
falling from sight.
In the still shadows of the Room of Requirement, the cord was no
longer merely the pale silver of moon-glow. Now, the silver pulsed and
flickered with traces of burnished red, the color of deepest sunset, forming a
grey and scarlet ribbon that ascended and swirled up into dimness.
There could be no question. Without a doubt, the silver cord was
slowly, gradually, becoming a crimson thread.

For James and Ralph, the first day of classes was like reacquainting
with an old friend for the last, raucous time. James knew the entire castle
by memory now. He could navigate the corridors with his eyes closed. He
knew which shortcuts could be counted on to be too well-known and
crowded to save any time between classes. He knew which bathrooms were
prone to have their pipes clogged after lunch, requiring the blackly grumpy
ministrations of Mr. Filch and a large rubber plunger. He knew when it was
safe to cut through Professor Heretofore’s empty classroom, and the potions
closet beyond, to cut several dozen yards off an otherwise wearying trek
through noisy, cramped corridors.
In short, he was a seventh-year. The school was like home. Better
than that, Hogwarts was his native domain. Unlike home, where the rules
were his parents’ and they made the decisions, Hogwarts school existed for
him, belonged to him nearly as much as it belonged to its teachers and
administrators. And as he passed through its halls between classes,

laughing with his friends, soaking up the camaraderie that he had so missed
throughout the summer, the younger years did (as McGonagall had
predicted) seem to look up to him and his fellow seventh-years as sort of
minor demigods. As James and his friends walked by, the youngest and
most timid students even backed up against the walls to watch, their eyes
wide and somber with awe, like rowboats rocking in the waves of passing
yachts. James didn’t feel quite entitled to such attention, but he enjoyed it
nonetheless, knowing that even those shy first-years would someday be in
his shoes.
According to James’ class schedule, Mondays were light, but
brutally rigorous. His morning period included a double Arithmancy class,
which was quite the marathon, considering that Arithmancy was one of
James’ weakest subjects. Fortunately, he navigated to a seat next to Rose,
who, like her mother, was a natural at the subject and had tested into the
advanced classes during her very first year. Unlike her mother, however,
Rose felt no obligation to assist James and Ralph in any way, and in fact did
her best to shield her fastidious notes from their prying, sidelong glances.
At one point, near the end of class, Professor Shert called Rose to the
chalkboard to illustrate a particularly lengthy equation, and James, in a
burst of inspiration, had quietly drawn his wand.
“Geminio!” he rasped as quietly as possible, directing the spell at
his cousin’s notes. With a tiny puff, he conjured two identical copies of the
parchment and quickly, triumphantly, distributed one to Ralph and jammed
the other into his knapsack.
It wasn’t until after class, when he and Ralph paused in the halls to
examine the copied notes, that they noticed that each neat, back-slanting
paragraph of Rose’s handwriting had transformed into a single sentence,
repeated over and over:
This content protected by ROSE WEASLEY’S
PATENTED ANTI-DUPLICATION JINX, meant
exclusively for JAMES POTTER, who is a lazy Niffler, and
maybe ALBUS POTTER, too, except I don’t think he even
knows the Gemini spell yet, even though that’s first-year
magic for morons.
Without a word, James and Ralph balled up the copied parchments

and tossed them into the nearest trash bin. Rose passed them with her chin
raised in the air, smiling smugly.
The remainder of the day was devoted to History of Magic with the
ghostly Professor Binns, which was perhaps even tougher than
Arithmancy. James knew that the subject was very important for potential
Auror training. Unfortunately, he had barely avoided a (D) Dreadful on the
subject’s most recent N.E.W.T. examination. He determined to be resolute
in paying painstaking attention to the famously boring Professor Binns, to
take copious, detailed notes, and to study steadfastly at every opportunity.
Ten minutes into the class, however, he was leaning on his elbow in
the first row, his eyeglasses abandoned on the parchment before him,
staring blankly at the mish-mash of chalk notes on Professor Binns’
blackboard as the professor droned patiently on.
Even Rose took fewer notes in Binns’ class, although James
suspected that this was because she, unlike him, already knew the material
frontwards and back. She doodled idly on the corner of her parchment.
James slid an eye toward the scratching of her quill and was both pained
and annoyed to see her completing a drawing of a fat heart around Scorpius
Malfoy’s name, written in looping cursive. She completed the heart, stared
disconsolately at it for a moment, and then scribbled it out, pursing her lips
silently.
Dinner in the Great Hall cemented the day happily, with James,
Graham, and Deirdre completing the beginning-of-term ritual with a round
of de rigueur complaints about the assigned homework and essays. Rose,
as usual, had completed hers in her free library period and merely raised her
eyebrows primly. None of them truly minded the homework, at least not
yet. James’ would be easily finished by the time ten o’clock rolled around,
bringing the appointment with Argus Filch and the other Seventh-years. He
saw the anticipation on Graham’s and Deirdre’s faces, but resisted the urge
to discuss it, even in whispers. The tour of Hogwarts’ most clandestine
areas was a secret, of course. If Rose had any clue about it, she would find
a way to get the information from James somehow or other.
As he made his way back upstairs to the common room for the
evening, he wondered how many of the school’s secrets he already knew
about. In truth, he expected quite a lot of them. He knew about the
underground passage between the statue of Lokimagus and the Quidditch
shed—had learned of that one during the first night of his first year, in fact.

He knew about the Chamber of Secrets, of course (although pretty much
everyone knew about that by now). He knew of the Room of Requirement,
and its sister space, the Room of Hidden Things. He even knew of the
passage that connected the Whomping Willow to the old Shrieking Shack
outside of Hogsmeade. And yet perhaps—hopefully—there would still be a
surprise or two on Filch’s surely grudging tour.
Perhaps there would be something that not even his dad knew
about. The thought made James smile a little mischievously.
James’ dad, of course, had never had the seventh-year experience,
instead spending his final school year camping, refugee-style, on the run
from Voldemort and his Death Eaters, and battling them by turns. He had
received his diploma, of course, granted by Headmaster McGonagall the
following year, in lieu of actual classwork “for actions illustrating an
effective grasp of all magical principles and practices in the honourable
defence of life and civilization against terrible powers.” As a result,
however, unlike all of James’ other years of schooling, his father had been
unable to provide a primer on what to expect during his seventh year.
Secretly, James was rather content with that. He had long since
shrugged off the shroud of living under his father’s legendary shadow. But
still, not having any such shadow to live under for his seventh year was
remarkably freeing.
That evening, he could barely concentrate on his History of Magic
book, musing instead on the upcoming meeting, watching the clock on the
mantel as its minute hand crawled infuriatingly slowly around the dial.
Gradually, the common room crowd thinned as, one by one, the younger
students went to up to their dormitories.
At a quarter ‘til ten, James met Graham’s eye across the room. The
other boy nodded curtly. Simultaneously, they stood and angled as
nonchalantly as they could toward the portrait hole. James scanned the
room, making sure no one noticed their departure. Rose was nowhere in
sight, fortunately. He was certain that she would have observed the
departure of the seventh-years and known something was up, possibly even
following them at a distance.
Once through the portrait hole, neither James nor Graham spoke as
they trotted lightly through the darkened halls and stairways, making their
way to the entrance hall. Ahead and around them, they caught glimpses of
other seventh-years flitting in the shadows, passing at intersections, all

wending their way variously to the appointment.
Deirdre caught up with Graham and James at the bottom of the main
staircase, where the rest of the seventh-years gathered beneath the nightdark chandelier.
“Excited, are we?” Deirdre asked, apparently trying to conceal her
own enthusiasm.
James nodded and shrugged. “Could be fun. That is, if there are
any real secrets we haven’t already discovered.”
“Even so,” Graham said darkly, “It’s an evening with Filch. I still
haven’t gotten over the way he was in our fourth year, back when Grudje
was Headmaster.”
James nodded, remembering it well. “You think he’ll ever retire?
Like Flitwick and McGonagall?”
An unexpected female voice answered softly, coming up from
behind, “Filch will never retire. It would mean spending the rest of his
natural life in his own stinky company.”
James glanced back and his cheeks suddenly heated at the sight of
Millie Vandergriff, accompanied by Julian Jackson and a Hufflepuff boy,
Patrick McCoy. As they congregated, Millie smiled openly at James in the
dimness.
Graham nodded at Millie’s comment. “Yeah, Filch will die here and
his body will probably just keep limping around the halls out of pure habit,
muttering threats and pointing out gum stains on the floors.”
“How do we know that hasn’t already happened?” Deirdre asked,
arching an eyebrow. “I don’t think anyone would be able to tell the
difference.”
As if on cue, the echo of Filch’s cane announced the caretaker’s
arrival. He ambled crookedly across the entry floor, seeming to avoid the
pools of light cast by the wall sconces, until his stern, stubbly features
loomed before the gathering, eyeing each face with obvious disapproval.
“Just in case it wasn’t clear,” he enunciated carefully in his gravel
voice. “I lead this tour as part of my duties. Not because I believe it is in
any way a worthy tradition. Bear that in mind, should you ever be tempted
to breath a single, solitary word of what you are about to see to any other
students.” He smiled grimly, showing all of his crooked, yellow teeth.
“Not that I’d mind one bit revoking your—ahem— privileges.” He glared
at the group beadily, meaningfully, and then his smile clicked off like a

lamp. Resentfully, he twitched his head toward a side corridor. “This way,
then.”
Without looking back, he turned and limped away, his cane clacking
hollowly on the stone floor.
As it turned out, James did, in fact, know about most of the school’s
secret passages, rooms, and amenities.
Filch began with the newest passage, a stairwell that led to a
doorway halfway up the Sylvven Tower, which was (as no one dared to
point out) not a place students typically went. James followed along with
the rest of the troupe, noticing that Millie Vandergriff sometimes walked
right next to him, brushing him with her elbow, and other times drifted to
the front of the line, where she whispered and giggled with Julian and the
boy, McCoy, whom James remembered from the Hufflepuff Quidditch
team, where he played Beater.
He tried to dismiss the sight of Millie and McCoy laughing quietly,
their heads together, but the image stuck in his brain, somehow prickly and
irritating. Perhaps the bigger boy was also a member of the Hufflepuppet
Pals. James doubted it, noting the boy’s huge square hands and dull eyes.
Finesse and wit were definitely not McCoy’s strong suit.
And why, James asked himself suddenly, was he spending so much
time thinking about this?
Deliberately, he turned his attention back to Ralph, Deirdre, and
Graham, who drifted along near him, following Filch’s tour with increasing
tedium.
As the trek around the castle ambled on, Filch showed them the
tunnel to the Quidditch shed and several connecting passages between
classrooms, a moving bookcase in the library that opened onto a hidden
reading room, a pair of strangely sumptuous bath and steam rooms on the
seventh floor, and finally, oddly, the laundry. There, the house elves
watched the tour from a distance, their gazes wary and grim, completely
unlike the expressions they wore on the rare occasion that they were seen in
the castle proper.
James was becoming tired and bored. “I wonder, could we just slip
away without being seen?” he whispered aside to Ralph.
“Fiona Fourcompass and George Muldoon did that ten minutes
ago,” Ralph answered behind a raised hand. “I almost joined them then.
But I sort of feel like I have a duty to stay.”

“Ah,” Millie rasped, peering at Ralph around James’ shoulder.
“That’s a Head Boy’s duty, for sure. Also, to tell the rest of us what we
missed if we decide to scarper around the next corner.”
Millie grinned aside at James and winked.
“One final stop,” Filch said, his rough voice echoing back from the
narrow dungeon walls. “And for this one, we shall need a key.”
Without turning, the caretaker raised his left hand. James glanced
up at it in the torchlight. An emerald ring glittered on Filch’s knobblyknuckled middle finger. James recognized it.
“Looks just like yours, Ralph,” he nudged the big boy. “Your
Slytherin ring-key.”
“Makes sense,” Trenton Bloch muttered. “We’re nearly to our
common room. I’m going to dodge in and call it a night.”
“He’s wearing it on his left hand, though,” Ralph commented.
“You’re supposed to wear it on your right. House rules. The door won’t
unlock otherwise.”
Ahead of them, Filch glanced back over his shoulder, pinning Ralph
with one sharp eye. “That’s if you want to get into the Slytherin common
room,” he said, lowering his voice to a mean growl. “Why anyone would
want to get into there I couldn’t begin to guess.”
A scattering of muted laughter emanated from the crowd as all eyes
glanced around at Ralph, Trenton, and the other Slytherin seventh-years.
Among them, Nolan Beetlebrick and Fiera Hutchins frowned and narrowed
their eyes. Slytherins, James observed, were not typically magnanimous in
the face of taunts. None, however, dared to reply to Filch’s unexpected jibe.
“This ring-key,” the caretaker went on, turning back and
approaching a broad doorway, “Takes us to a thoroughly more interesting
place. Not that any of you should have need to visit it, I daresay.”
The door to the Slytherin common room was a metal monstrosity of
locks and deadbolts, dominated by an enchanted sculpture of a coiled snake,
one eye glowing with a green gem, the other an empty black socket.
Normally, the snake raised its head to challenge the entrant. Filch gave it
no chance, however. With another glance over his shoulder, he plugged the
ring-key on his left hand into the snake’s empty eye socket.
The various bolts, locks, and clasps of the door clacked loudly open
and the door eased loose on its heavy hinges. Filch paused, still glaring
back over his shoulder at the gathering of older students, almost as if he

might change his mind about this last secret and send them all back to their
dormitories.
Instead, with a reluctant grimace, he heaved the door open and
stepped through.
A push of cold, strangely misty wind rushed out around Filch’s
shoulders, flapping James’ collar and lifting Millie’s blonde hair.
“That’s never been there before,” Ralph commented, following the
group as it pressed through the open door.
Ahead of James, Trenton Bloch suddenly stumbled, raising his head
as he moved through the opening. He blinked rapidly, turning on the spot.
When he spoke, his voice was a hushed tremolo.
“That’s never been there before, either!”
Impatiently, James shouldered around Trenton, and then drifted to a
stunned stop himself, his eyes widening as he took in the suddenly massive
space before him.
Amazingly, inexplicably, the Slytherin common room was gone. In
its place was a vast cavern with wet stone walls and a rough-hewn floor,
terraced into broad descending steps. At the bottom of the steps, acres of
black water spread away in the shape of a small subterranean lake, heaving
with waves. Along the distant walls, nearly hidden in the darkness, broad
archways led to what appeared to be canals or underground rivers. Huge
torches hung in sconces between the arches, reflecting their flickering light
on the waves.
The troupe of seventh years drifted down the broad steps in awe,
trying to peer in every direction at once. Water lapped and splashed. The
torches crackled.
A ship bobbed and creaked on the waves some distance away,
moored to a stone bollard with a length of rope. The ship was old, but low
and sleek, equipped with three tall masts and studded along its side with
portholes and cannon ports.
“That’s a blockade runner,” McCoy announced with a low whistle.
“A smuggler’s ship! What’s it doing here?”
“Forget the ship,” Fiera Hutchins said, adjusting her glasses as she
looked around. “Where is here?”
“Look!” Graham called suddenly, his voice waking echoes all
around the cavernous space. He stabbed a hand upwards, pointing toward
the dark ceiling.

James looked, and swayed under a thrill of alarm and wonder.
The ceiling wasn’t stone. It was water. Waves rolled and clapped
together overhead, forming an inverted mirror of the enormous pool below,
glinting blackly in the lofty heights.
“We’re beneath the lake!” Deirdre suddenly proclaimed. “Aren’t
we?”
Filch’s voice rang from some distance away, where he stood on the
lowest terrace overlooking the waves. “The Black Lake is technically not a
lake,” he announced, and James thought that the old caretaker, for the first
time, seemed to be enjoying himself. “It’s an inversion of the underground
harbor below. From here, vessels can travel to virtually any waterway in
the world. So long as its occupants aren’t prone to a wee bit of
claustrophobia and don’t mind getting a tetch wet.”
“Hold on,” Millie said, standing next to James again. “Are you
saying that when the Durmstrangs arrived in their ship, back in the days of
the Triwizard Tournament…?”
Graham continued, realization dawning on him. “They didn’t just
magically appear, bobbing up from the lake like it was some kind of
portal?”
“Ach,” Filch said, an edge of impatience coming back into his
voice. “There’s plenty o’ magic involved. More than you lot could get
your wee heads around. But the lake above is no portal. It’s just the
passage into the network of rivers below. From here, a ship can get
anywhere, if they’re willing to brave the endless tunnels and underground
oceans between here and there.”
“So whose boat is that, then?” Trenton asked, pointing at the
blockade runner that bobbed secretively in the distance.
Filch opened his mouth to answer but another voice drowned him
out, calling suddenly from the darkness.
“And that’s th’ end o’ th’ tour, I wager,” the voice said,
unnecessarily loudly. James recognized it even before the huge man
appeared from the shadows, hands raised in a warding-off gesture. “Mr.
Filch is a busy, busy man. Make sure that you thank ‘im gen’rously on the
way out. Good to see yeh all. Yer dormit’ries await.”
“Hagrid!” Ralph said with a puzzled smile. “But who’s that with
him?”
James peered into the dimness, past the disgruntled form of Filch as

he began to ascend the steps again, irritably herding the students ahead of
him. Alongside Hagrid, another much smaller figure moved slowly toward
the light.
Filch gestured toward the open door at the back of the cavern. “The
professor’s right. Back to your dormitories, and be quick about it. No
lollygagging. And bear in mind what I said at the start of the tour! Not a
word to anyone!”
James walked backwards, stumbling up the rough terraces alongside
Ralph, trying to hang back long enough to greet Hagrid and his mysterious
friend. Filch was insistent, however, driving the group toward the door,
brooking no hesitation.
As James pressed back through the doorway and into the waiting
warmth of the dungeon corridor, he glanced back once more. Hagrid was
standing on one of the lower terraces now, between the door and the dark
ship in the distance, the look on his face both fretful and relieved.
The person standing with him was finally, plainly visible. She had a
small smile on her face as she met James’ eyes and shrugged.
I told you I probably already knew all about it, the shrug seemed to
say.
As Filch pulled the door closed behind them, clanking the locks and
bolts back into place, Ralph stopped in the hall and frowned, glancing back
over his shoulder.
“What in the wide world is Rose doing in there with Hagrid?” he
asked.
James heaved a sigh and shook his head wryly. “Come on, Ralph,”
he said. “You’re not really all that surprised, are you?”

4. SECRET OF THE DAGGER
“To be fair,” Rose said as she, James, and Ralph navigated the
crowded corridor late the following morning, “I only found out about the
harbor beneath the lake last year. Hagrid needed help with something, so he
let me in on the secret.”
James was skeptical, but pitched his voice low so not to be
overheard by the between-class throng. “Hagrid needed help with
something in some secret lake beneath the lake, so he comes to a fifth-year
student instead of another professor?”
“Excuse me,” Rose said, stopping in the hall and extending her free
hand toward James, “I’m Rose Weasley. I’m sort of pretty amazing at lots
of unusual and difficult spells, even better than some professors I could
mention. Have we met?”
“Ah,” Ralph said with a nod. “It’s a secret, whatever it is, but
Hagrid needed some help with some difficult wand-work.”
“I bet it has to do with that boat,” James agreed, then glanced back
at Rose. “Does it?”
Rose continued walking, lowering her own voice to a hush. “He
won it off some wizard in the Hog’s Head. I warned him, nothing good has
ever come from such things in the past, mysterious strangers betting
dragon’s eggs and entire boats over card games in dodgy pubs. And what

does he say?” Here, she stood as tall as she could and adopted a rather
dopey frown, clearly doing her best impression of the half-giant: “But th’
summer’s are long, Rosie! One can only weed a garden so many times
afore it starts getting’ to ‘im! I gets lonely and bored and in need o’
comp’ny!”
James couldn’t help smiling at Rose’s impression. “So his new boat
may not be exactly legal, then. What’s he need your help with?”
Rose turned a corner, propelled by the noisy crowd approaching the
Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom. “Well, it’s not a wizarding boat,
strictly speaking. A lot of unusual modifications need to be made to make
it sea-worthy in wizarding waters. And it’s not the sort of magic that one
does on a day-to-day basis.”
She unslung her knapsack outside the DADA classroom and
rummaged in it briefly, producing a small but very thick book. The title,
embossed in faded silver on green cloth, read: The Essential Seafarer’s
Compendium of Nautical Enchantment, Boating Bewitchment, and Shipshape Spellwork.
“Looks…” James bobbed his head at the book. “Well. Looks like
something you’d fall right into.”
Ralph cocked his head. “So what makes a ship a magical ship,
exactly?”
“Oh, you’d be amazed,” Rose enthused, warming to the subject and
flipping through the book. “Charmed hydrophobic varnish is what we’ve
been spending most of our time on, so the ship repels water when it travels
up through the lake to burst onto the surface. And then there’re antiGrindylow hexes, siren-repellents, navigational mastheads, not to mention
the purely mechanical and clockwork apparatuses, like folding masts, deck
domes, sea-monster harnesses--”
“Annnd I’m bored already,” James sighed, bypassing Rose as he
entered the classroom. “But bully for you for getting a sneak-peek at the
harbor under the lake. I’m sure it was worth all the time slathering magic
varnish all over Hagrid’s secret boat.”
“He does the slathering,” Rose rolled her eyes, following James and
Ralph inside. “I just charm the stuff. And unlike you, I like learning new
things. One never knows when a hydrophobic spell might come in handy.”
The previous class was draining from the room, still muttering and
collecting their books, while the next class filtered in around them.

“Boys,” Debellows said, raising his eyebrows as he settled behind
his huge desk. “And Miss Weasley. I don’t believe I have you in my class
until tomorrow’s advanced lesson. Or am I mistaken?”
James shook his head quickly. “No, sir. We came to ask something
else. We were, uh, curious, sir, about using some of our Defence Against
the Dark Arts class-time for our seventh-year field work in a related
profession.”
Debellows stopped organizing the hopeless mess of paperwork on
his desk and looked up, giving them his full attention for the first time. He
looked vaguely puzzled, and then blinked and nodded. “Ah yes. I’m sure I
must have received a notice about such a programme. I likely ignored it, as
I do most intra-school communications. One can only be informed so many
times about revisions to school dress codes and rescheduled meetings one
has no intention of attending in the first place before all such notices start
going directly into the rubbish bin. So. You three intend to pursue some
practical experience in lieu of my class-time, is that it?” He seemed both
open to the idea and slightly churlish about it.
“Not all three of us--” James began, but Rose overruled him
suddenly, shouldering past him to stand directly in front of Debellows’
desk.
“Yes, sir, Professor,” she said quickly, clearly not intending to miss a
serendipitous opportunity. “All three of us. James, Ralph, and me. Er,
yes. We three.”
She glanced back at James briefly, her eyes stern. James closed his
mouth with a small click.
“Well,” Debellows said slowly, looking back down at his desk and
shuffling papers again, randomly. “I suppose it would depend upon what
sort of practical field experience you intended to engage in. I can only
assume that you’d like to participate in some preliminary training for the
Harrier Corps. I should warn you, my young friends: it is an arduous
journey, becoming a Harrier, but vastly rewarding in every respect. I shall
contact my old commander, see if I cannot call in a few favors to--”
“Um,” Ralph interrupted, sharing a suddenly wide-eyed glance with
James. “Um. Not the Harriers, sir. Exactly. Quite…”
Debellows frowned and looked up again, his face etched with
sincere puzzlement. “Not the Harriers? What could it possibly be, then?”
Rose answered, standing stiffly upright, almost as if she meant to

salute the professor. “Auror training, sir. We wish to use the skills you’ve
taught us to learn Auror methodology. To track down and capture dark
wizards and witches, warlocks, hags, and other various threats to the good
people of the magical world.”
James blinked at Rose, annoyed but rather impressed. Glancing
back at Debellows, he added: “Like my dad, sir.”
Debellows turned his iron gaze from Ralph, to Rose, to James, and
then drew a deep, skeptical sigh. “I suppose one can’t blame you three for
entertaining such designs, coming from the families that you do. It does
strike me as a bit of a wasted resource. You, especially, Mr. Potter, show
great potential not only in defensive spellwork, which we will be delving
into much more deeply in your final year, but in your Artis Decerto and
battle psychology. But…” he shrugged his massive shoulders—they were
like continental tectonic plates on either side of his bull neck—and sighed
again. “If that’s what you have your hearts set upon, I suppose I cannot
dissuade you.”
“Sorry, sir,” Rose said, still standing at attention in front of the
cluttered desk.
“All right, then,” Debellows looked down again, clearly reluctant
but not quite invested enough to protest any further. “I suppose there is
some… official parchment or other that I should sign.” He shook his head
dismissively. “I shall look into it. For now, assume my general support of
your endeavor. I shall inform you when something has been arranged.”
James backed away from the desk, pulling Rose and Ralph with
him, anxious to escape before Debellows changed his mind. After a few
clumsy backwards steps, the three thanked the professor, then turned and
virtually ran from the classroom, threading past younger students who
watched them go, bemused and curious.
“All three of us, eh?” James turned a sardonic look on his cousin as
they hurried toward the stairs for lunch.
“You didn’t expect me to pass up an opportunity like that, did you?”
she shrugged. “To skip out on Debellows’ annoying class and skive off to
the Ministry of Magic to hob-nob with Uncle Harry and my mum? I doubt
it’ll last long before somebody catches on. But it’ll be Professor
McGonagall or Headmaster Merlin who do, not that mountainous lump,
Debellows.”
“You really don’t much like him, do you?” Ralph commented as

they turned to tramp down the stairs.
“If he taught the girls the same things he taught the boys I might feel
differently,” she sniffed. “He thinks a woman’s best battle magic is a charm
for cleaning blood off her husband’s robes. Believe me, I’ve learned more
defensive magic watching a wizard chess match than sitting in his stupid
class.”
James was familiar with Rose’s ongoing private feud with the
current Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, and knew enough not to
debate her about it. She was right that Debellows divided his classes
between boys and girls, ostensibly to make dueling practices fairer. As far
as James was concerned, considering the competent fierceness of girls like
Ashley Doone and Julian Jackson, he suspected Debellows might be
exercising fairness more on the boys’ behalf than the girls’.
At lunch, James noticed Albus seated, perhaps for the first time
ever, at the Gryffindor table. He was across from Lily near the very end, in
the centre of a group of laughing fourth- and fifth-years, all leaning close
and keeping their own confidences. Next to him, Lily’s friend Chance
Jackson was watching him closely, smiling and blinking far more than mere
physiology demanded. James wondered for a moment if Albus’ vaunted
bachelorhood was being secretly challenged.
“Lily is a notorious match-maker,” Rose commented, glancing
toward the end of the table to see what James was looking at. “She’d just
love to see Albus and Chance together.”
James scoffed. “Never happen,” he grabbed his pumpkin juice and
drank it down in three quick gulps, standing as he did so. He wiped his
mouth with his sleeve and went on, “Albus will date from within his own
house or he won’t date at all. Fiera Hutchins is more his type.”
“Hmph,” Rose replied, standing as well and gathering her things.
Somebody bumped James from behind, hard enough to make him
fumble his glass as he leaned to place it on the table. The glass tumbled and
sprayed the dregs of his juice onto his books. Annoyed, he wheeled to see
who had been clumsy enough to bump him so hard.
A small, rather blocky boy, a first-year Ravenclaw, was standing
there with another boy and girl. All three were watching James with smug,
tight smiles.
“Ooops!” the blocky boy said with sarcastic emphasis. “Clumsy
you!”

James frowned in stunned surprise. The boy, who was at least a foot
and a half shorter, with a shock of greasy ginger hair and freckles so dense
that they seemed to join forces in a single blotch around his nose, had
clearly bumped James on purpose, and wanted James to know it. James
opened his mouth, not even sure how to respond.
“Whassa matter, Potter?” the boy challenged, “Hinkypunk got your
tongue?” He crossed his eyes and gawped his own mouth up at James in
childish mockery. “Gah-gah-bwa-bwa-duhhh!”
The boy and girl with him snickered and glared up at James, their
eyes sharp, glinting with baffling malice.
Before James could even begin to formulate a response, the trio
turned and walked away, unhurrying toward the open doors, laughing
loudly and nudging each other with their elbows.
“What was that all about?” It was Ralph, approaching from the
Slytherin table, apparently having witnessed the interaction from a distance.
“James was just bullied by a first-year,” Graham said, a disbelieving
laugh coming into his voice. “Did that really just happen, or am I
dreaming?”
Rose looked equally consternated. “What did you do to earn that,
James?” she asked, glancing from the departing trio to James. “And who is
he?”
Belatedly, a pulse of embarrassed anger arose in James’ chest. He
felt it redden his cheeks. “I’ve never seen that little prat before in my entire
life!” he said, wonder and surprise turning his voice into a low rasp. “I
don’t even know his name!”
“Edgar Edgecombe,” said a small voice. James glanced aside to see
Shivani’s young brother, Sanjay, still seated nearby, his eyes wide and
serious. “He’s a first-year, like me. Are you, you know…” he paused and
glanced around the table, as if reluctant to be the one to say it, “going to let
him get away with that?”
“I’d practice every jinx I ever learned on him,” Graham nodded,
turning serious and meeting James’ eyes. “All at once. Twice over. Make
an example out of ‘im.”
“James can’t just go jinxing first-years,” Rose said with a derisive
glance toward Graham. “He’d just get hauled before the headmaster.
Maybe even expelled. What’s wrong with you?”
As a group, they began to drift toward the doors, following the

baffling trio into the Entrance Hall. “But the little Ravenclaw prat just
insulted James!” Graham insisted in a hushed tone. “And by extension, all
of us!”
“It’s James’ problem,” Rose replied loftily. “He may not feel free to
discuss his response in front of the Head Boy—” she glared aside at Ralph,
who looked mildly affronted, “—but he will respond.” She turned her gaze
meaningfully on James. “Won’t you.”
It was a statement, not a question. James blew out a breath and
shrugged. This was the very last thing he needed—some inexplicable
upstart berk embarrassing him during his final year. Whatever bee the little
prat had in his bonnet, James mostly just hoped that the boy, Edgar
Edgecombe, had gotten it out. James didn’t enjoy comeuppance the way
people like Scorpius Malfoy did. He didn’t understand meanness, and was
deeply baffled about how to respond to it.
Fortunately, by the time he and Ralph got to the third floor and their
next class, they were distracted from Edgar Edgecombe by the young new
Charms teacher, Professor Odin-Vann.
The professor was very thin, James noticed, and dressed to hide that
fact in layers of dark robes and a high, stiff collar. His beard, though
sparse, was combed and waxed into a point sharp enough to draw blood.
As the class filed in, he sat behind his desk, bent over a sheaf of parchments
and scribbling busily with his quill. James had a secret suspicion that the
professor’s busyness was a ruse to hide his nervousness. The young man
didn’t look up as the students found their seats, unusually hushed in the
presence of a new teacher. When everyone was seated, Odin-Vann put
down his quill and finally raised his head. A lank wing of his black hair
covered one eye. He raised a hand and pushed it aside in what was
certainly, by now, a purely automatic gesture.
“Welcome, class,” he said in a reedy voice, sitting up slowly in his
seat. “As you all know by now, I am Professor Donofrio Odin-Vann. I
replace your previous teacher, the esteemed Professor Filius Flitwick,
whom I sat under myself when I was in your place not that very long ago. I
am sure you, like me, are sorry to see him go. But I also hope that you, like
me, will make the best of a new opportunity.” He smiled, and although it
wasn’t entirely a genuine smile, James sensed that it was less insincere than
anxious.
The professor stood then and brushed his robes off, moving from

behind his desk. He glanced back at the chalkboard behind him and startled
slightly, apparently surprised at the drabble of handwritten notes remaining
from his most recent class. He produced his wand reflexively, and then
paused, the wand raised awkwardly in his hand.
“Er, Mr. Potter,” he said, scanning the class and fixing his gaze on
James. “If you would, ahem, please clear the chalkboard for us?”
He waited, his eyes imploringly on James. James blinked at the
professor, and then drew his own wand from the pocket of his robes,
suspecting that the professor had called on him not because of James’
potential magical competence, but only because he happened to know
James’ name. Why the professor didn’t clear the chalkboard himself, James
had no guess whatsoever.
“Correptus,” James called from his seat, giving his wand a flick
toward the chalkboard. With a puff of white dust, the scribbled words and
diagrams vanished, leaving the board clean, if nominally smudged. It
wasn’t a spell he’d had much practice with.
“Thank you,” Odin-Vann nodded with palpable relief, glancing back
at the board. Stiffly, he put his own wand away again. “To begin, then,
please turn in your textbooks to chapter one, ‘elemental transcendents and
transmutations’.”
“Well that was weird,” Ralph said an hour later as they made their
way to the library for study period. “He didn’t do a single spell himself
until nearly at the end of the lesson.”
“He knows his stuff, though,” Deirdre commented appreciatively.
“There’s more to Charms than wand-work. There’s theory and new spell
writing, charmed objects, wand reflexology--”
“What’s wand reflexology?” James asked.
“Training a wand to do stuff on its own,” Rose explained, joining
them at an intersection. “The witch or wizard has to have it in their hand
for the magic to work, but it saves time. A wand can reflexively complete a
chain of pre-incanted spells or some especially hard magic, so long as the
witch or wizard has embedded it properly.”
“Well that’s sort of the point, innit?” Ralph shook his head and
glanced aside at Rose. “It all still ends up with a wand in a hand, doing
magic. That new bloke, Odin-Vann, barely touched his wand until class
was almost over. Although when he did, he was brilliant with it. Made the
coatrack scuttle-dance around the room to the beat of a Rig Mortis song on

the wireless.”
Rose shrugged. “He’s probably just nervous, what having the Head
Boy in his class and all.”
“You’re never going to let that go, are you?” the bigger boy
grumped, nettled.
“Actually, I’m very happy for you,” Rose softened her voice and
patted him on the shoulder, which was quite a reach. “So this will be the
last thing I say on the subject: it’s a worthy accomplishment, and you’re
like a brother to me. But the Weasley in me insists that I warn you: if you
ever pull rank on me, I’ll pull wand on you. And even that overgrown
broom-handle of yours is no match for me in a duel.”
She smiled sweetly up at him and batted her eyes. Ralph blinked at
her, then at James, who merely raised his hands in a keep me out of this
gesture.
At dinner that evening, James watched Cedric Diggory’s ghost flit
happily over the Hufflepuff table. He was happy for Cedric, but joined his
own house in bemoaning the lack of an official Gryffindor Ghost. As they
discussed this, their gazes roaming over the other tables and their attendant
spectres, James’ eye was caught by the glare of Edgar Edgecombe. The
small, blocky boy was seated in the middle of the Ravenclaw table, flanked
by his two friends, whom James now recognized as Quincy Ogden and
Polly Heathrow, both first-years. He vaguely remembered them from the
Sorting. All three craned to peer at James, to assure he saw them looking.
Edgecombe grinned and his brow lowered. Pure spite beat from him like
waves of radiation. Then, still staring at James, the ginger boy leaned and
muttered something to his friends, who burst into shrill, nasty laughter.
James shook his head dismissively and looked away. What was the
deal with the little prat? Maybe he would find out later. He hoped it
wouldn’t come to a confrontation. He wasn’t particularly good in such
situations. The stress of confrontation always muddled his mind, blew
away his words, made his reactions feel clumsy and stupid.
And suddenly it occurred to him: perhaps that was what it was like
for Professor Odin-Vann. Perhaps the nervousness he’d shown at the
beginning of class resulted in the magical equivalent of stage-fright, the
way some people developed stutters or nervous tics when under stress.
Maybe the professor couldn’t trust himself to do magic when he felt tense
or self-conscious. Later, of course, when the professor had warmed to both

the class and his subject, he had used his wand naturally, and with great
skill.
Still, James thought, if an extremely competent witch or wizard
couldn’t rely on their magic in stressful or confrontational situations, that
would be a rather debilitating limitation. It was no wonder, perhaps, that
the young man had gone into teaching instead of, say, magical law
enforcement.
James, on the other hand, may be unaccustomed to confrontation,
and he may lose his wit momentarily when surprised, but he could do magic
if it came to it. Edgar Edgecombe had surprised him once, but the
obnoxious little twit wouldn’t do so again. As Graham had suggested,
James did know enough jinxes to put the boy in his place. Mentally, he
checked them off-- the Jellylegs jinx, Levicorpus, the Bat-Bogey hex,
stinging spells, the Toe Biter-- and decided that he could do most or any of
them without getting into too much trouble with the administration. If, that
was, the little berk was the tattling type. Maybe instead he was the type of
wanton little bully who respected a hard shove back more than conciliatory
words or appeals to authority.
Over the years, James had confronted and battled monstrous powers,
maddened ghosts, mythical beings, and even doomed love. But up until
now he had never had much experience with bullies. Somehow, this
nemesis seemed, if not the most difficult, at least the most potentially
annoying.

That night, for the first time in months, James dreamed of Petra.
He heard her voice through a fog of what felt like great time and
distance. He couldn’t make out her words, but the tenor and lilt of her
voice was unmistakable. It awoke in him the unguarded truth, irresistible
and implacable in the uncomplicated core of his sleeping heart: he loved
Petra. He had loved her for years, despite rarely seeing her, despite the

complexities of her mysterious past and her uncertain future, despite even
the doubt that sometimes haunted his waking mind. He loved her with the
sort of hopeless, unabashed devotion that surpassed reason and intellect and
shot straight to the bright solar centre of his heart, charging and dominating
it like a permanent lightning bolt.
Petra owned and occupied his deepest love. He could pretend
otherwise while awake. But here, in the depths of the dream, the truth was
an iron weight, heavier than the world.
He approached her through the fog, tuning her in, following the
silver and crimson cord that bound them, and her voice began to clear.
There was another voice as well—a man’s voice? Was it the Muggle
private detective she had partnered with back during the intrigue of the
Morrigan Web? James thought not. Marshall Parris was an American. This
voice was British, and a bit younger. James recognized it, but only vaguely.
Gradually, their voices became clearer, closer, although still hidden
behind great heaving masses of fog. James propelled himself onward,
whumping through the cold greyness.
“I won’t dissuade you,” the man’s voice said, still thin with
distance. “In fact, you’ll recall that it was my idea, almost two years ago,
when you found me again.”
“I do recall,” Petra said. “But I dismissed the idea as your usual
foolhardy blathering. You’ve always tended to be a bit emotional and
thoughtless when it comes to protecting me.”
The man seemed unperturbed by this. “So what’s changed?”
“What you suggested thoughtlessly, I’ve given serious
consideration.”
James pressed on, and finally the fog broke into tatters. Silverfrosted clouds stretched around him like arms, blocking the moon, casting
shadows over a dark landscape: a small town with only a scattering of
glowing windows, a scarcity of lit streetlamps. And then, past this, a huge
building on a hill, encroached on all sides by forest and bramble, almost
claimed by creeping vines and tangled roots. It was a mansion, though very
old and utterly dark except for a single upper window, which flickered with
the faintest suggestion of light. James approached it, slowing, listening,
wanting nothing more than to hear Petra’s voice again, to see her, even if it
was all merely a figment of his sleeping mind.
“You have what you need,” the man’s voice said. “What do you

require me for?”
“No one grasps the underlying magic and spellwork like you do,”
Petra said. “It’s your particular genius to understand the magic behind the
wand.”
The man’s voice, even more familiar now, seemed to smile
doubtfully. “Petra, your visit to the Armory of Forbidden Books provided
you everything you need to know regarding ‘the underlying magic and
spellwork’.”
“Then maybe I just need a friend,” Petra sighed. “Someone who’s
known me long enough to tell the truth. Someone impartial enough to see
my real intentions. You know why I’m doing this, don’t you?”
James slowed as he neared the window. His dreaming mind rippled
through the old glass without a sound. He entered a dark room with nothing
but a small fire illuminating it, guttering and spitting in the hearth. The rug,
as James’ bare feet touched it, was greasy and threadbare with age. The
walls were filthy, cracked, leaning. James brushed them and his fingers
came away thick with damp grime. The only furniture in the room was a
pair of high-back chairs, facing the fire. Between them, sitting close to the
light of the flames, collecting their glow and glinting brightly, was a silver
tray.
Something sat on the tray. Not a cup or saucer. A butter knife?
James drew closer, not sure he wanted to see. Mostly, he just wanted to
approach Petra, to look upon her face, to see the glimmer of her eyes and
the dark lustre of her hair. He missed her. His heart burned for her.
“You’re doing it because the world needs you,” the man said
soberly. “But the world doesn’t know it. The world wants to stop you, by
whatever means necessary, even if it means killing you. They blame you
for everything.”
Petra sighed deeply. “They may not be entirely wrong in doing so.”
“That’s beside the point,” the man went on. “Even if you are the
problem, you are also the solution. They cannot be allowed to stop you.
For the good of all, both the Muggle and magical worlds, you must survive.
Your life is more than yours. It belongs to the world. To the universe. No
matter what, you… must… survive.”
James occupied the deep shadows of the room, creeping closer. He
could see the top of Petra’s head over the back of her chair now. The
firelight flickered on it like burnished bronze.

“I must survive,” she repeated the words with mingled regret and
resolve. “So, even though we are here, in the house of the one whose
bloodline I am cursed with, even though I am willingly calling on his power
now instead of thwarting it, as I’ve struggled to do at every step so far…”
“He did this for his own selfish aims, for power and destruction.
You do it for the good of the world.”
In the darkness, James blinked, as if coming fully awake in his own
dream. What was happening here? Swiftly, he replayed the conversation
he’d been barely hearing, having been too enthralled by the sound of Petra’s
very voice to attend to her words. He glanced around at the room he was
in. The smell of mold and rot filled his nose. What was this place? What
had she just called it? The house of the one whose bloodline she is cursed
with…?
James suddenly understood, knew with the unshakable certainty of
the dream: this was the mansion of Tom Riddle’s father, long abandoned,
overgrown, and falling to rot.
He looked down, toward the silver tray that glimmered in the
firelight. Upon it was a dagger, its handle encrusted with jewels, its blade
dark and sooty, tarnished almost black. He recognized it immediately. It
was the dagger that had killed Morgan, the Petra from another dimension,
wielded in the hand of Judith as part of her chaotic plan. How had Petra
gotten it? More importantly, why?
Fear and horrible suspicion suddenly welled in James, and yet he
crept forward still. It’s just a dream, he told himself. I’m only dreaming…
none of this is real…
Petra finally came into sight as she leaned forward, reaching for the
dagger, collecting it into her thin hands. She cradled it in the firelight, her
eyes wide, bright as she looked down at it. She drew a deep breath and
shuddered as she let it out. Without raising her gaze from the dagger, she
began to speak to it. As she did, James’ eyes widened in horror. The fire
responded to her words, first growing restless in the hearth, and then flaring
with bursts of hungry green, almost seeming to breathe. As Petra reached
the end of her recitation, wind entered the room, coming from nowhere and
everywhere, lifting the limp curtains, carrying dust and grit into the dank
air, moaning throughout the dim, empty rooms of the decrepit mansion.
James could scarcely believe the words that came from his
beloved’s lips, spoken with slow, undeniable emphasis:

“Extinguished soul’s essence risen,
“Final breath from murdered host,
“Enter now, this, your prison,
“Slave to my fragmented ghost.”
Petra held the dagger higher, her voice rising even as the rushing air
combined with the flames of the hearth, carrying them around the room and
illuminating it with green fire. She ignored this, her voice becoming a low
boom through the growing tempest.
“If I should die before I take,
“The course of my intent design,
“Then from this prison re-awake,
“Immortal now… my dread Bloodline!”
Petra’s voice became thunder, not shouting, but amplified over the
sudden cyclone of wind and fire that burst throughout the room, lighting it,
tearing at the ancient wallpaper, whipping the curtains, condensing into a
whirling maelstrom around the slight girl, now standing with the upraised
dagger in her hands.
“Petra!” James called out, breaking his paralysis and finally finding
his voice. She couldn’t hear him, of course. This was just a dream, despite
how terribly, frighteningly real it felt.
And yet, from the midst of that swirling, horrible cloud, even as it
caught her hair, whipped it about her face and flashed in her stern, glowing
eyes, Petra glanced aside at James. She saw him, blinked in a sort of
waking flutter, and her face changed. Fear, and shame, and heartbreak
suddenly filled her features, clouded her eyes.
The man in the other chair stood then, blocking James’ view. He
turned toward James, his own face full of surprise and wariness and more
than a little fear.
It was, bafflingly, Donofrio Odin-Vann. He recognized James,
opened his mouth to call out to him, but no sound could be heard over the
roaring vortex of Petra’s spell.
The whirl of fire and green light sucked all light into itself and
contracted, taking both Petra and Odin-Vann and even the sprawling, dead
mansion with it. Everything condensed into one brilliant, terrible point, and
the point was shaped like a dagger, as blinding and merciless as the deaths it
had caused.
And then, with a shock that was both icy and deafening, the point

exploded.
James shocked awake at the sensation of it, as if thrown the many
miles and leagues back into his bed by pure force, nearly crashing through
it to the floor at the strength of it.
He flung himself up instead, and gasped as if he hadn’t drawn a
breath in minutes. His eyes blinked blearily around the dim silence of
Gryffindor tower. His fellow Gryffindors were still asleep, sprawled
variously across their beds, completely immune to the horrendous vision
that James had just returned from.
But was it a vision? Had it truly only been a dream? Helplessly, he
remembered the look on Petra’s face as she had seen him, recognized him
in the midst of the spell she had conjured.
He looked down at his hands in the darkness. Something was
smudged on the tips of his fingers, dark and greasy by the moonlight. He
touched his hands together and felt the filth of the mansion’s walls on
them. The smell was still in his night-clothes, the reek of ancient rot and
mold and death.
Somehow, he had not only dreamed of Petra. He had gone to her.
He had physically stood in the same room with her, touched its grimy walls,
taken its air with him upon his return.
What he’d seen had not been a dream or a vision at all. Somehow,
James had seen Petra and the inexplicable figure of Professor Odin-Vann
perform some terrible spell, make some momentous decision that James
sensed was irreversible, terrible, and portentous.
He tried not to know what that spell had been, but his deepest heart
told him what his brain resisted. Petra had gone to the abandoned mansion
that had once been the home of her cursed soul’s-twin, Tom Riddle, the
Dark Lord Voldemort. She was no longer resisting his poison influence, but
channeling it, using it, bending it to her own will.
And with it, she had repeated that villain’s most awful, damning
spell. James flopped back onto his bed again, still breathing hard, his eyes
wide and unseeing in the darkness. He could barely believe it. It was too
awful to consider. And yet there was no question in his mind, even now,
fully awake and in the comfort of his own bed in Gryffindor Tower.
Petra, the young woman that he loved, the girl who had once
doodled happy fairies in the corners of her textbooks and sucked on the tips
of her black hair during examinations, had done the unthinkable.

Amazingly, dismayingly, she had fulfilled the black promise began by the
death of her step-mother years earlier, a death that Petra herself had caused
in a fit of blind, righteous rage.
Petra… had created a Horcrux.

5. JUNIOR AURORS IN TRAINING
At breakfast the next morning, James considered telling Rose and
Ralph—or even Albus or Scorpius—what he’d learned via his previous
night’s dream. It wasn’t a matter of whether they would believe the part
about how he’d actually been transported to a different place, travelling the
mysterious thread between himself and Petra like a sort of high-speed
conduit. It was the simple, damning reality of what she had done. He was
afraid of the looks that would appear on their faces, the shocked
disappointment, the suspicion that perhaps the rest of the magical world
was right in opposing Petra, that James and his friends may have been on
the wrong side all along.
Worst of all, he didn’t want to have to defend Petra to them.
Because deep in his heart, despite the love he harbored for her, he wasn’t
sure he could defend her. Horcruxes were the worst sort of dark magic
imaginable. That’s why she’d had to learn about them via illicit break-in to
the Armory of Forbidden Books. The Unforgivable Curses were one thing.
But Horcruxes were another level of dark magic entirely.
He couldn’t eat, merely pushed a smattering of scrambled eggs
around his plate until he heard the noise of the morning post. He looked up
at the flutter of owls as they swooped through the upper reaches of the
Great Hall. One, a small tawny barn owl that James recognized as the

Weasley family messenger, swooped low over the table and dropped a
newspaper before Rose, thumping it neatly between her juice and a platter
of toast.
She glanced at it, as did James. The headline, even upside-down,
was plainly visible:
POTTER PROGENY ON MERLIN HEADMASTER: HE CAN BE
SCARY SOMETIMES!
Without raising her head from the newspaper headline, Rose tilted
her eyes up at James.
“I didn’t say any such thing!” James declared, pushing back from
his uneaten breakfast. “Seriously!”
Rose scooped up the paper and flipped to below the fold. Her eyes
flicked as she scanned. After a moment, she began to quote from the
article. “‘He can be a bit scary sometimes,’ the young Potter answers,
clearly concerned about reprisals for his honesty. ‘He knows how to keep
order, that’s for sure. And he does it with more than just rules.’ His
downcast eyes flick nervously up, as if begging me to imagine the
alternative methods the Headmaster might choose, clearly worried about
incriminating himself. Being familiar with Mr. Ambrosius’ rather infamous
past, I can all too easily imagine what the poor young man faces on a daily
basis. Fortunately, being a seventh-year, Mr. Potter’s ordeal is near an end.
It is his younger classmates that he worries about. ‘Ask them,’ he suggests,
clearly hinting at their corroboration.”
“I said no such thing!” James insisted again, grabbing at the
newspaper. Rose jerked it away from his grasp and folded it again.
“It’s rubbish,” she shrugged, stuffing the newspaper into her
knapsack. “Nobody knows how to twist a person’s words like Rita Skeeter.
Frankly, I expected better from her.”
“Headmaster Merlin won’t even give a thought to it,” Graham
nodded. “If he reads it at all, which I doubt, he’ll probably like it. Nothing
breeds order quite like a fearsome reputation. I think that’s an exact quote
from him, in fact. When you look at it that way, seems like Skeeter’s doing
him a favor.”
Cameron Creevey leaned across the table to be heard over the clatter
of silverware. “I know my parents would just love it if they thought the
headmaster was bringing back the thumbscrews and stretcher racks. Keeps
out the riff-raff, they’d say.” He grinned, showing an expanse of pink gums

and teeth.
From nearby, a yodel of derisive laughter pierced the air. James
turned to see Edgar Edgecombe and his friends reading aloud from their
own copy of The Daily Prophet.
“Regarding the magical world’s enemies,” Edgecombe read loudly,
raising the newspaper and snapping it open for all to see. “The young Potter
grows misty-eyed at the remembrance of his former school-mate, turned
Undesirable Number One: ‘Yes,’ he sniffs, ‘Petra is my friend,’ and turns
away to hide the tears that tremble on his lashes…”
Quincy Ogden and Polly Heathrow dissolved into gales of laughter
as Edgecombe raised his head over the newspaper to peer at James. He
frowned and trembled his lower lip, as if about to burst into tears himself.
He had an audience, as many students from around the Great Hall perked
up to watch, some with confusion, others with bemused smiles, watching to
see what James would do.
James drew his wand.
He expected Rose to stop him, but she merely watched, her eyes
bright, even eager, as she awaited his reprisal.
It was Ralph that stopped him.
“Don’t do it, James,” he said, coming from behind and placing a
large hand on James’ arm, not to restrain him, but merely to give him
pause. “The little git’s not worth it. Let him have his laugh.”
“Easy for you to say!” James hissed from the corner of his mouth.
“It’s not you he’s quoting in front of the whole school!”
“Yeah,” Graham nodded. “Stay out of this, Deedle. This is
Gryffindor business.”
“Or join in,” Scorpius suggested from further down the table. “All
for one and one for all, eh?” He waggled his own wand, one eyebrow
cocked provocatively.
Ralph ignored Scorpius and Graham. He looked at James, offering
no more warnings, merely letting the weight of their friendship speak on his
behalf.
Feeling a mixture of frustration and relief, James slid his wand back
into the pocket of his robes. Rose, Scorpius, and Graham deflated visibly.
A squawk of anger erupted from Edgar Edgecombe as someone
jerked the newspaper from his hands. James looked up to see Professor
McGonagall standing behind the boy, the newspaper held in her upraised

fist. She was glaring down at Edgecombe, who wheeled around angrily,
saw the Professor’s steely gaze, and then shrank beneath it, turning his face
back to the table in front of him. James saw the boy’s expression, however.
He was neither afraid nor ashamed, merely caught. His eyes flicked back
and forth between his friends, and he smiled smugly, secretively.
“You three are new to this school,” McGonagall announced archly,
glaring down at the backs of the three Ravenclaws’ heads. “But I can
assure you, everyone in this room already knows how to read. We do not
require your services on our behalf.”
Crisply, she folded the newspaper, glanced piercingly around the
room, and then dropped the bundle back onto the table before Edgecombe’s
bowed head. He snickered silently, still flitting his eyes back and forth
between his cronies.
Gradually, the noise of conversation filled the hall again.
James’ face was hot. He knew he was blushing and hated himself
for it. Keeping low in his seat, he watched Professor McGonagall stride
toward the open doors. Students began to drift to their feet and gather their
things, heading disconsolately to their classes.
“That’s two points for Edgecombe, zed for you,” Scorpius muttered
in James’ ear as he stood. “Sanjay is right. You can’t allow it to go on.
The longer you let the teacher’s fight your battles, the worse you look.”
James pressed his lips together in anger and embarrassment.
Scorpius was right, but he wasn’t about to admit it aloud.
“What do you think, Ralph?” he asked with a sigh as they made
their way to the greenhouses for a double Herbology class.
Ralph shrugged and shook his head. “Makes me wish Zane was still
here.”
James smiled weakly at that. Ralph was right. Zane would know
exactly what to say to put Edgecombe and his little entourage in their place.
He slowed in his pace as an idea came to him.
Edgar Edgecombe wasn’t the only person Zane might have some
half-decent advice about.
Considering it all throughout the day, James waited until dinnertime,
and then dashed up to the Gryffindor dormitory, knowing that the common
room would be deserted at this hour. Retrieving the Shard from his trunk,
he tramped back down the stairs and flopped onto the sofa before the cold
fireplace. It was several hours earlier in America, which meant that there

was a good chance that Zane was either in class, at Quidditch practice, or
just skiving around the campus of Alma Aleron with his friends. Still,
James spoke the incantation that summoned the view into his friend’s
dormitory room.
The silvery clouds of the Shard’s face cleared, as always, but the
view that appeared was not the cluttered dormitory desk and perpetually
unmade bed. It was, in fact, perfect blackness.
James shook the Shard in his hands.
It was apparently
malfunctioning somehow, although he wouldn’t have believed such a thing
was possible. The glass of the mirror remained perfectly blank. And yet,
James thought he could hear faint voices coming from it. He raised the
Shard to his ear and listened intently. Sure enough, there was the faint
murmur of a voice. Zane’s? Had he taken the Shard down from his closet
door and stuffed it into his backpack?
“Zane!” James called, placing his face close to the Shard. “It’s me,
James. Can you hear me?”
A faint scream came from the Shard. James withdrew suddenly, his
eyes widening. It had been a girl’s voice.
A moment later, the blackness of the Shard fluttered, and then fell
away. In its place was Zane and the sunny mess of his dormitory room.
The boy was dressed in his Zombie house white shirt and yellow tie, but the
tie was loosened and his blonde hair mussed. A black tee shirt draped from
his right hand, having apparently been hung over his side of the Shard only
moments before.
“James,” he rolled his eyes with a smile. “Don’t you ever knock?”
“Kind of hard to do,” James replied, “but I’m glad you’re there.
Isn’t it about lunch time there in the States?”
“It’s make-out o’clock, if you must know,” the blonde boy grinned.
He turned aside. “It’s OK, Cheshire. It’s just James.”
James was slightly mortified to see the face of Cheshire Chatterly,
Zane’s longtime girlfriend, appear in the Shard. She patted down her own
blonde hair and smiled. “Hi James,” she called with a quick wave. “Good
timing.”
James had a moment to think that suddenly everyone but him
seemed to be leading an exciting and romantic dating life. “So I hear,” he
shrank a little on the sofa. “Sorry.”
“We snuck past Yeats to come up and study for a Mageography

quiz,” Zane bobbed his head and gestured toward a pile of books on the
nearby desk. “But what can I say? My animal magnetism got the better of
her.”
Cheshire poked Zane sharply in the ribs. “I should get down to the
caff anyway,” she said, turning back to James. “I can’t face Professor
Wimrinkle without at least one butterscotch brownie under my belt.”
“I’ll meet you at the dome in a few minutes,” Zane nodded. “Bring
me one of those brownies.”
The view of the room swept sideways for a moment as Cheshire
opened the door, then swept back with a clunk.
“So what’s Petra up to?” Zane asked, pushing his tie back up and
threading his fingers through his hair.
“What makes you think it’s about Petra?”
“Oh, did you interrupt me in the middle of the day to get my recipe
for Salsa Grenado?” Zane raised his eyebrows. “You’re going to have a
hard time finding Peruvian Plimpy-Peppers in the Hogwarts cupboard, and
believe me, salsa without Plimpy-Peppers is basically just chunky ketchup.”
“All right, fine,” James sighed impatiently. “It’s about Petra.”
“And you don’t want to talk to anyone else about it because they
already think she’s got one foot in old Voldy’s boots.”
“Zane,” James said, meeting the blonde boy’s eyes through the glass
of the Shard. “She’s made a Horcrux.”
Zane took a step back from his own Shard, his eyes widening and
his hand frozen in the act of finger-combing his hair. Slowly, he lowered
his hand and stepped closer to the Shard than before.
“But,” he said, more seriously than James had heard his friend speak
in a long time, “Horcruxes mean you have to kill someone.”
“She did kill someone,” James said in a hushed voice, sinking lower
on the sofa. It wasn’t a topic they discussed much, but they all knew it.
“Her step-mother, Phyllis. She was a perfectly horrid woman by every
account. Hated her own daughter, Izzy. Drove Petra’s grandfather to
suicide and may have been responsible for her first husband’s death,
according to some. She and Izzy killed her together, somehow. They sent a
tree after her.”
Zane was nodding, his eyes deep in thought. “But it was an
impulsive thing. She didn’t do it in order to make a Horcrux. She did it
because she was angry and broken-hearted about her grandfather. She lost

control.”
James shook his head. “I don’t think that matters.”
Briefly, he explained to Zane how he had travelled along the silver
and crimson thread between him and Petra, how he had found her in Tom
Riddle’s family home, seen her raise the ugly dagger and pronounce the
incantation that infused it with the fracture of her soul.
When he was done, Zane gave a low whistle. “You need to tell
everyone,” he said after a moment. “Rose and Ralph, at least. It doesn’t
look good for Petra, but there’s no getting around that now. You don’t do
well trying to handle this sort of thing all by yourself.”
“Thanks for the vote of confidence,” James allowed the Shard to fall
flat onto his lap.
“That’s why you came to me,” Zane went on, now talking to the
ceiling of the Gryffindor common room. “I tell you the hard, ugly truths
that no one else will say. Like, it’s high time you got over your puppy love
for Petra and started seeing her the way she really is.”
James startled and raised the Shard again, angrily. “Not you, too!”
he exclaimed. “First, Scorpius, and then Albus, and now you?”
Zane shrugged in the Shard. “OK, so maybe I’m not the first one to
speak that particular hard, ugly truth. But it’s true, and you know it.”
James slumped again. “If only it was that easy.”
“Just as long as you’re thinking about it,” his friend nodded. “But in
the meantime, there’s another person you need to talk to, as soon as you let
Ralph and Rosie in on Petra’s latest excursion into the Dark Side.”
“And who is that?” James asked limply.
“This new professor of yours, Van Odin or whatever. The one you
said appeared with Petra.”
“It’s Odin-Vann. And he couldn’t really have been there. My mind
stuck him there because I’d been thinking about him, that’s all. There’s no
way he could’ve gotten all the way from Hogwarts to wherever Petra was
last night.”
“Maybe,” Zane agreed doubtfully. “But maybe not. Sounds to me
like none of what you saw last night was technically a dream. You have to
ask Odin-Vann to be sure. He might be your best bet to help Petra, if help is
still possible.”
James nodded reluctantly. Zane was probably right, although he,
James, would look a fool—perhaps even a dangerous fool—if he

confronted the new Charms teacher about meeting Petra Morganstern and
Odin-Van had no idea what he was talking about.
“I have to go,” Zane said soberly. “Time and Professor Wimrinkle
wait for no man, especially not Zombie students who are already barely
passing his class by the skin of their teeth. But keep me informed. And if
you need anything, you know where to find me.
Experimental
Communications has some cool new techniques, so I can always find a way
to be there if you need me.”
“As long as it’s not make-out o’clock,” James smiled wanly.
Zane nodded. “Precisely.”
A moment later, the Shard filled again with silvery waves of smoke.
James sighed and tossed the glass aside onto a cushion, contemplating what
he had to do.
It was hard enough to consider asking Professor Odin-Van about
Petra.
Much harder still was the prospect of somehow, someway,
abandoning his love for her.

James waited until the following weekend to share his latest secret,
although by then Rose and Ralph knew that something was up just by
looking at him, since he had never been especially good at hiding his
thoughts. When Saturday afternoon came, he accompanied Rose to the
Room of Requirement once more, knowing that it was the one place they
could speak of such things without even the slightest chance of being
overheard. Now more than ever, secrecy seemed absolutely imperative, not
only for Petra’s security, but their own.
“Why couldn’t we have met down by the Lake?” Rose groused. “It’s
too nice outside to be stuck in the musty old Room of Requirement. And
we don’t have many warm days left, you know.”
“The Lake makes me nervous now that we know there’s a big hole

at the bottom that drops down into some underground harbor. Anyone
could be down there. You said yourself that sound travels clearly through
water if you know how to listen.”
“The portal is very small compared to the bottom of the whole
Lake” Rose said, not exactly disagreeing with James. “Otherwise where
would the Merpeople live?”
“Them, too,” James said. “I don’t trust those creepy water-dwellers
much, either.”
“That’s speciesist,” Rose commented without much feeling as they
met Ralph near a large painting, where he seemed to be engaged in a
discussion with the portrait of Barnabas the Barmy.
“So you aren’t barmy after all,” Ralph said doubtfully, frowning and
scratching his head. “S’just a title?”
“Indeed,” the portrait replied in a high, nasally voice. “Before the
twelfth century, ‘barmy’ merely meant ‘inventive or prone to overheat if
one wore a wig in the sun’. I’m just as sane as you or the potted plant or
that rather fetching girl behind you.”
Ralph glanced back and was relieved to see Rose approaching,
“Of course,” the portrait went on, its face clouding slightly, “there
was the matter of my attempt to teach trolls to perform ballet…” Around
and behind the painted visage, pale elephantine legs in pink silk slippers
rose and thumped down, shaking the ground in a clumsy, prancing circle.
“I’ve got to stop getting into conversations with paintings,” Ralph
breathed, stepping to join Rose and James. “So what’s this all about, then?”
Rose summoned the Room of Requirement, which materialized, as
usual, opposite the portrait of Barnabas and his prancing trolls. The portrait
still mumbled to itself uncertainly, and then gave a tittering laugh.
“Inside,” James nodded toward the door as Rose opened it.
The sound of lightly running feet echoed from the hall and James
glanced aside, alarmed. A shadow capered into view, preceding the form of
his sister, dressed in weekend jeans and a maroon jumper.
“Oh good,” she said, “I’m not too late again.”
“Who invited you?” James exclaimed, taken aback.
“I did,” Rose answered challengingly, poking her head back around
the door of the Room of Requirement. “It gets a bit boring being the only
real brains in the room, especially since you didn’t bring Walker along this
time.”

James sighed. “That’s because he already knows. He’s the reason
I’m telling you lot. It’s fine,” he said, turning back to Lily, who gave him a
slightly petulant look.
Following Ralph, the group filed into the Room, which looked just
as before: smallish and private, dominated by a round table with several
chairs and a large Foe Glass on the rear wall. Just as the door started to
swing closed, it bumped and swept open again, admitting the figure of
Scorpius Malfoy, who blew out a disgruntled breath and flung himself
languidly onto the nearest chair.
“I had to interrupt a perfectly good chess match for this, Potter,” he
commented importantly. “I was beating Nolan Beetlebrick rather handily.
And I had a galleon riding on it.”
“You didn’t need to interrupt anything,” James declared, knitting his
brow in annoyed surprise. “Because I deliberately didn’t invite you!”
“Ah, because you’re a good enough wizard to block the Protean
charm from any ducks except the ones you want to quack.” The blonde boy
produced his own Weasley duck from his pocket, showed it to James and
gave it a brief squeeze.
“Sod off!” the duck quipped in its squeaky voice. Written on the
duck in blue ink was James’ own handwriting: OotP meeting Saturday 3:30
PM. NO SCORPIUS.
James sank in his seat and muttered under his breath.
“Excuse me, Potter?” Scorpius clarified innocently. “I didn’t quite
catch that.”
Ralph blinked in surprise and glanced from James to Scorpius. “I
think he said ‘duck yourself’…?”
“Shall we get underway, then?” Rose said, raising her voice
suddenly. “I’m sure we all have things we’d rather be doing.”
Behind Rose, the door clicked and shoved open again, admitting a
push of air and another figure. Exasperated, James jumped to his feet.
“Hey everyone,” Albus said, stopping in the doorway and looking
around. “I figured I’d find you all in here.”
“Anyone else out there we should invite in?” James asked, glaring
around the room. “Mrs. Norris the cat? The Wyrd Sisters? Myron
Bleedin’ Madrigal and Wizarding Wireless News?”
“Cool your cauldron, James” Albus said in a bored voice, closing
the door and falling into a chair. “I’m just here with a message from

Professor Debellows. But first, what’s the big news this time?”
With the door finally closed and everyone who could enter
accounted for, if not invited, James drew a deep breath, suddenly unsure if
he really wanted to share the secret, despite Zane’s advice. He fell back
into his chair and studied the tabletop.
“Petra,” he said simply, “has made a Horcrux.”
There was stony silence in the room as everyone seemed to absorb
this in their own way. Scorpius studied James sharply, his eyes narrowed
tensely. Ralph looked both bewildered and horrified. Lily covered her
mouth with both hands, her eyes shocked wide. Albus, however, merely
stared into the shadows, his face thoughtful but unfazed.
“Are you certain?” Rose asked breathlessly. “How could you know
that? Last we spoke…?”
“I hadn’t even seen her,” James nodded, unable to meet his cousin’s
gaze. “She was locking me out. But that’s all changed. I don’t think she
can keep it up. I think the harder she freezes me out, the harder the Thread
tries to connect us.” As briefly as he could, he explained his experience
with the dream, traveling to Petra and observing her, actually standing in
the same room with her, transported purely by magic.
“But Horcruxes are seriously specialized dark magic,” Lily said, her
voice nearly a whisper. “I heard Dad talking to Uncle Ron about it once,
and they both agreed that no one had created one ever since Voldemort’s
time. Uncle Ron said that no one alive probably even remembered how it
was done anymore. How can you be certain that Petra…?” She couldn’t
bring herself to finish.
“I’m certain,” James nodded dourly. “There was no mistaking the
meaning of the incantation. And once Petra saw me, the look on her face
made it clear. She was ashamed of what she had done. But…” He didn’t
want to say it, but even now in his memory he could see her eyes. There
had been shame and sadness there, yes. But beneath that, almost buried in
the depth of her surprised gaze, there had been defiance.
Ralph asked, “But, why would she do it?”
“Well that, at least, is obvious,” Scorpius said, giving the table a
sharp rap with his knuckles. “She needs to survive long enough to replace
the Crimson Thread in the destiny that the now-dead Morgan came from.
With every Auror, Harrier, and vengeful git with a wand out looking to cut
her down, she needs assurance that she won’t be killed before she can

complete her task and save the universe.”
“But a Horcrux,” Lily said, dropping her eyes gloomily. “Ever since
Voldemort, people know dark magic like that stains a person’s soul, makes it
twisted and broken. Can her goodness survive those effects long enough to
finish her plan?”
“You forget,” Albus said suddenly, glancing from face to face.
“Petra was born with ‘twisted and broken’ already in her. The last bit of
Voldemort himself survives in her blood. She can call on his dark strength
to make the Horcrux. And she can transfer the poison of that dark magic to
him. The last shred of Voldemort is sort of like a magical tapeworm,
sucking up all the toxic effects and giving back strength and resolve.”
“Eww,” Lily grimaced and shuddered.
“And what makes you such an expert in these things all of a
sudden?” James couldn’t help asking, sitting up in his seat to glare at his
brother.
Albus shrugged, refusing to make eye contact. “Stands to reason, is
all.” He flopped back in his chair and crossed his arms.
“Well there’re really only two things we can do,” Rose said after a
long, meaningful pause. “First of all, James, you must use your dreaming
connection to Petra to watch her as closely as possible.”
“I will if I can,” James nodded. “I don’t think I have a lot of say
about it, either way. Petra, neither, no matter how hard she tries. But
why?”
Scorpius answered, “Because little Albus might be wrong about
Morganstern’s ability to stay pure as the wind-driven snow while tapping
into the mouldy-Voldy bloodline. The tapeworm, as he calls it, may grow
fat enough to take her over completely. If that happens, she won’t care
about finishing her mission. She’ll become the enemy that the magical
world already believes she is.”
James wanted to argue. He wanted to point out that Petra, being a
sorceress, was stronger than Voldemort had ever hoped to be. The guttering
shred of that villain caged in her soul was a mere flickering candle
compared to her roaring bonfire.
But he remembered that look in her eyes, underneath the shame and
sadness—that buried, ironclad spike of defiance. You won’t understand why
I must do this, James, the look said. You can’t understand. And I don’t
blame you. But please, don’t dare try to stop me. I won’t allow even you to

stand in my way…
“What’s the second thing we have to do?” Ralph asked, turning to
Rose.
Rose sighed deeply, resolutely. “We have to help Petra,” she
answered with a slow nod. “Any way we can. We have to assist her in
completing her mission to take the place of the Crimson Thread. Because
Scorpius is right. If Petra is tapping into the power of the Bloodline of
Voldemort, that shred of ghost won’t be content to merely help her. It will
seek to rule her. It will persuade her to give in more and more. If it
succeeds, Petra may well lose the will to complete her task. She may truly
become the She-Voldemort.”
James shook his head firmly. “That’s crazy,” he insisted. “Petra
isn’t like him--”
“James,” Lily said, her quiet voice interrupting him more effectively
than a shout. “The worst thing Voldemort ever did was kill and create
Horcruxes. Petra is the only other person who’s done the same thing. I
don’t like it any more than you. But the fact is, she is already more like
Voldemort than any other living person. She isn’t thwarting the Bloodline
anymore. She’s using it.”
“We have to help her replace the Crimson Thread in that other
dimension,” Rose finished, watching James’ face intently, “before she
changes her mind about doing it at all.”
James didn’t agree with Rose. But he didn’t argue.
Resolved, if unhappy, the troupe began to stand. There were no
sounds other than the scrape of chairs on the stone floor and the creak of the
door as it opened.
They were halfway down the hall before Albus suddenly piped up.
“I almost forgot why I was looking for you in the first place,” he
glanced aside at Ralph, James, and Rose. “Debellows said your first duty
as ‘junior Aurors in training’ has come up.”
“But, it’s Saturday,” Ralph protested, slumping. “This is supposed
to be a replacement for class time, not weekends.”
“Hush, Ralph,” Rose said, shouldering the big boy aside. “What’s
Debellows want us to do?”
“Search me,” Albus shrugged. “He just said to meet him outside the
headmaster’s office at four this afternoon.”
Rose stopped in her tracks, her eyes going wide. “And you just now

remembered to tell us!? You do know that it’s…” She consulted her watch
frantically, and then nearly shouted, “five past four already!”
Albus shrugged again. “I’m a messenger, not your bloody
secretary.”
His words were lost on Rose, however, who had spun on her heels,
already retreating back along the corridor at a dead run. James and Ralph
glanced at each other, and then scrambled to follow, pelting as fast as they
could in Rose’s wake.
They would have made it to the headmaster’s office only slightly
late if they hadn’t been stumped, of course, by the gargoyle that guarded the
spiral staircase. There, they spent several agonizing minutes attempting
every Old Welsh and Celtic former password they could remember, all to no
avail. Eventually, steps rang from above as people began to descend the
staircase from the headmaster’s office. Debellows himself came into view
first, followed by Professors Votary, Heretofore, and McGonagall.
“Ah,” Debellows commented, spying the students standing around
the gargoyle. “And thus your first foray into Aurorship goes much awry.”
He clucked his tongue and gave a condescending smile.
“We’d have been on time, er, more or less,” Rose said, slumping
back onto a windowsill, “If your messenger had remembered to give us the
password.”
“Ah, but I didn’t provide it to him,” Debellows chided, raising a
pedantic index finger. “One never shares passwords with those whose duties
do not require them. No, your instruction was to meet me here, outside the
Headmaster’s office, where I would have escorted you inside at the proper
time. Alas, when the proper time came, you were not to be found.
Methinks there is some small lesson here.”
James, along with Rose, was about to protest, when another set of
tramping feet rang down the spiral staircase, revealing the last person James
expected to see: his own father, wearing his official robes, apparently in
close conversation with the headmaster himself.
James ran to meet him at the bottom of the stairs, and then paused,
suddenly aware of the presence of so many observing teachers. He
attempted to replace his expression of breathless curiosity with one of mere
professional interest, and knew that he was not exactly succeeding.
“James,” his father smiled at him and clapped him on the shoulder.
James was nearly as tall as his father now, though both were still half-a-

head shorter than the imposing bulk of Headmaster Merlinus nearby. “I’d
been told I might see you upstairs. Delayed, were you? No matter. Here
you are now.”
“Yeah,” James answered, exquisitely aware of the many watching
eyes nearby. “We’ve officially begun a sort of work study, exchanging
class-time for on-the-job Auror training. Er, all three of us.” He indicated
Ralph and Rose as they joined him.
“Hi, Uncle Harry,” Rose said perkily, ignoring the mutter of nearby
voices as the teachers drifted away, led by Headmaster Merlinus.
Harry cocked an eyebrow. “All three of you, eh? Your mother will
be so proud that you’ve managed a promotion to seventh-year, Rose.”
“Hush!” Rose said, turning grave and slitting her eyes toward the
departing teachers. “I’m not doing a thing you wouldn’t have done, Uncle,
and don’t you dare say otherwise.”
Harry nodded wisely and mimed locking his lips. He seemed as
cheerful as ever, James thought, and yet something seemed to hang in the
air about him, muting his mood and darkening his eyes. Perhaps only
James, having grown up with him, could sense it.
“What was that all about, Dad?” he asked seriously. “What’d we
miss?”
Harry nodded, turning serious as well. He seemed to consider for a
moment. “You three,” he nodded, marking each with his eyes, “you’re all
looking to become Aurors, are you?”
James nodded, as did Rose next to him.
“I suppose so,” Ralph answered, frowning a little. “As such. I
mean, I’m not all that keen on having loads of dark witches and wizards
shooting killing spells at me all day long. But, you know. It’s something to
do.” He shrugged as Rose rolled her eyes.
“Good enough, then,” Harry said. “Walk with me.”
They walked along the corridor, passing huge windows and moving
in and out of the brilliant afternoon sunlight. Harry didn’t speak, only
marched along, knowing his own way along the halls and passages just as if
he was still a student. They descended steps and finally passed through the
old rotunda, heading toward its enormous but lesser used wooden doors.
Only then, as they stepped out into the warm glare of the ancient portico
steps, did Harry speak.
“You all were present when those Muggles stumbled into the

Entrance Hall, I assume?”
James nodded, trotting down the steps to the brambly yard below.
The lake lay beyond a low stone wall, shimmering copper in the lowering
sun. “Everyone was. The whole school saw it.”
Harry considered this dourly. “It’s happening all over the magical
world. The old protections are thin as tissue, if they exist at all anymore.
Muggles are obeying the boundaries out of sheer habit, not because they are
kept out. But bit by bit, some of them are wandering in. Just like that
family on First Night.”
Rose stopped next to the wall and peered up at her Uncle. “Is that
why you were summoned here today? To talk about how to shore up the
boundaries?”
Harry shook his head. “That’s already been done, as well as it can
be. Merlinus was more than up to the task, and I imagine his unplottability
charms are better than any other living wizard today. No, I was sent here
today by order of the Minister of Magic himself.”
Ralph blinked in surprise. “Loquatious Knapp sent you? But why?
What’s he care about some wandering harmless family at Hogwarts when
there’s places like Gringott’s Bank and the giants’ mountain preserve at
risk?”
“Because Hogwarts is well known to be one of the best and most
heavily protected sites in the entire northern hemisphere,” Harry answered.
“Knapp wanted me to see for myself, to hear from those who witnessed it,
that the breach is so bad even here that an entire family of clueless Muggles
was able to simply drive up to the gate and walk inside.”
James nodded. “Well, that’s pretty much exactly what happened.
So what do we do?”
“You mean, as junior Aurors in training?” Harry favored his son
with a sideways smile.
“Well, yeah,” James nodded, rising to the challenge. “If we can!
This is all our problem, isn’t it?”
Harry gave a brisk sigh. “You’re right, James. All of you, you’ll
have to do your part. I won’t belittle that. But there’s really only one thing
the Minister believes we must do. Every official both above and below my
rank agrees. Even Titus Hardcastle and the rest of the Auror department,
they all know what must be done.”
Ralph frowned. “And what’s that?”

In answer, Harry reached into his robes. James assumed his father
meant to produce his wand. Instead, he withdrew a small scrolled
parchment. He unrolled it, looked down at it, and then turned it around for
all to see.
James had seen copies of it many times before. Each time, it gave
his heart a sick little jolt, although over the past few years, as the posters
had aged and been pasted over by adverts and graffiti, the jolt had numbed
slightly. Seeing the perfectly crisp copy now held open in his father’s
hands, the sick, sinking feeling came back stronger than ever.
Petra’s face was printed in black and white, unmoving, not because
it wasn’t a magical photograph, but because the girl in the picture was
unconscious. It had been taken by the American arbiter, Albert Keynes,
during the brief time after they had succeeded in capturing her. They had
kept her in a magical sleep, knowing that they could not contain her if she
was awake.
Beneath the photo were words printed in huge black capitals:

UNDESIRABLE
NUMBER ONE:

PETRACIA ZOE MORGANSTERN
THREAT LEVEL 10+
DO NOT ENGAGE!

REPORT ON SIGHT
“We have to capture her,” Harry said soberly. “She’s where this all
started. And before you begin, James,” he raised a hand to his son, “I
know. We all do. You don’t need to remind me. She did it to save us, me
and Titus, back during the parade in Muggle New York City. But that
doesn’t change anything. Everything began to unravel from that moment.
Every Ministry Technomancy expert agrees. Petra started it. In order to
stop it, we must find her.” He paused, and then went on in a low, firm
voice, clearly repeating the orders he himself had been given. “We must
capture her, by any means necessary.”
“But,” James began, although the piercing look on his father’s face

subdued his tone. “But, what if Petra is trying to stop it all herself? What if
capturing her will keep her from accomplishing the job?”
His father’s gaze was direct and probing. James recognized the look
and the posture behind it, the keen alertness. His father was in Auror
mode. James had rarely felt the intensity of it turned upon him, but he did
now.
“She’s had over two years, James,” he said, unblinking. “If she
intended to set things right—which I would very much like to believe-she’s had time to do so. Instead, things have continued to go further wrong,
and there are many who believe that she is directly responsible for those
things. Up to and including the potential disaster that was the Morrigan
Web. Even you have acknowledged that she had a hand in orchestrating
that.”
“But…!” James began, but his father overruled him again with a
look.
“I know. You also tell me she had her reasons, and that she helped
to stop it in the end. I want to believe you. If you’ll remember, it was me
and your mother that put Petra up the summer her grandfather died. It was
us who supported and hosted her during Keynes’ investigation. I’ve always
wanted to believe the best of Petra, despite how it made me look to many of
my peers and superiors. And that’s the problem, really. Now, people are
watching me. They believe I won’t work as hard as I must to capture Petra.
That’s why I must work all the harder.”
He sighed harshly and slumped a little, then looked up at James
again with only his eyes. “She’s had two years, son. She’s had every
chance I can offer her. Things are unraveling too fast to wait any longer.
And that’s why I must ask you, all three of you…” Here he looked aside,
turning the intensity of his gaze briefly upon Rose, and then Ralph, before
bringing it back to James. “If any of you know anything about Petra—
about what her plans might be, or where she might be found… if any of you
have had contact with her in any way… you must tell me. Not because I
am your father, and uncle, and friend. But because withholding such
information is now a crime punishable by law. Not even I would be able to
protect you. Even if…” Here, he hunkered down and drew the three
students into a close huddle around him. He went on in a near whisper.
“Even if, when I was in your shoes, and knew things that no one else did, I
might have chosen to keep that information a secret myself, despite every

warning to the contrary.”
“You never were one to bring lots of adults in on your plans,” Rose
agreed.
“You won’t want to hear this,” Harry breathed reluctantly, “but I’m
going to say it because it’s true. Things are different now. When I was your
age, I didn’t have grown-up allies in positions of power. Or if I did, I didn’t
know who they were, and wasn’t certain if I could trust them, at least not
until it was all over. Things are different for you lot. You have me, and
Hermione and Ron, and Professor McGonagall, and Neville Longbottom.
And Headmaster Merlinus, for heaven’s sakes.”
James tried not to smile, even in the midst of his consternation.
“You sound like Grandma Weasley when you say ‘for heaven’s sakes’.”
The Auror mode on Harry’s face softened a little. “That’s not a bad
thing. Never a bad thing. But I’m serious. All of you. This is no longer
the time to do things on your own. Besides placing the entire magical
world in jeopardy, and possibly the Muggle world as well, it’s a Ministry
crime. And people I don’t control will assure that such crimes are punished
to the fullest extent. We have to end this. If you hear anything, learn
anything, know anything… I need you to tell me. The sooner we can
capture Petra…” He shrugged and his eyes drifted uncertainly. “Well, if
she does intend to end this, same as we, then the sooner perhaps we can
work together to accomplish that goal.”
James wanted to tell his father everything he knew. But in that
moment, he saw the doubt on his father’s face. The Ministry wasn’t
interested in partnering with Petra. Capturing her meant punishment,
imprisonment, possibly even total obliviation, or worse. The entire magical
world blamed her for everything that was going wrong. They wouldn’t be
satisfied with anything less. In fact, considering how powerful Petra was,
the worst outcome—her own death, or those who opposed her—was the
likeliest outcome of all.
Suddenly, darkly, James was secretly glad that Petra had created her
Horcrux. In order to preserve and repair the magical world, she had
performed the riskiest and most damning spell of all. All James had to do
to help her… was lie.
Or not lie, perhaps. Merely omit. For a time. He glanced around at
Rose and Ralph.
“We’ll tell you if we hear anything,” he said, still looking at Ralph

and his cousin, not quite prepared to meet his father’s probing, knowing
eyes. He considered his words carefully, quickly. “If we learn anything
that will help you put an end to all this… then we’ll tell you straight away.”
This, he told himself, was not a lie, exactly. Because in his heart, he
didn’t believe that anything his father did could put an end to the degrading
destiny of the world all around. Only Petra could do that now.
His father studied him intently, his eyes neither suspicious nor
gullible, merely watchful, as if he was recording every syllable for future
consideration. James finally met his father’s gaze again, knowing that it
was a mistake not to. After a moment, cryptically, the elder Potter nodded
once, slowly.
“Good. That’s all I expect of you.”
The three straightened out of their conspiring huddle. Harry tucked
the Petra poster back into his inner pocket, and then patted his robes,
looking for something and muttering. “Where did I put that, then? Ah.”
He produced a tiny black velvet bag that James recognized. It was weighed
down from the inside by a single dense object—a pewter chess king of the
non-magical variety, from a set once owned by James’ grandfather, Arthur
Weasley. The piece normally decorated the corner of Harry Potter’s desk in
the Auror department at the Ministry of Magic, except for moments like
this.
“One benefit of the diminished boundaries around Hogwarts,” Harry
said, bouncing the small bag on the palm of his hand. “Portkeys work
much closer to the school than they used to. There was a time I’d have to
walk halfway to Hogsmeade before this would have functioned.” He
looked up at the three gathered students again. “I assume I’ll be seeing you
lot soon enough, now that you’re all officially junior Aurors in training?”
Rose nodded. “Until any of the teachers catch wise on my part, at
least.”
“But hopefully only during class-times, from here on out,” Ralph
added.
James only nodded, not quite trusting himself to speak.
“I’ll give your love to everyone else,” Harry said, his smile fading
slightly. “And they send theirs to you. Until next I see you, then,
remember: you know how to contact me, both personally and officially. I
trust that you will, should anything… come up.”
The three nodded as Harry watched. Apparently satisfied, he

bounced the black velvet bag on his palm again, caught it, and then turned
and walked several paces, as if he meant to stroll into the evening shadows
of the Forbidden Forest beyond the old courtyard. Wind blew and switched
through the tall grass at his feet. As James watched, his father upended the
bag onto his open right hand, catching the pewter chess king as it fell out.
With an eye-bending whoosh and a whip-crack of collapsing air, he was
gone, leaving only the impression of his footsteps in the field grass below.
“We’ve crossed the Rubicon now,” Ralph breathed fretfully, running
a hand back through his hair and collapsing against the stone wall. “We’re
withholding valuable information from official Ministry investigation.
Your dad’s right, James. We could go to prison for this. Seriously.”
Rose shook her head, more uncertain than denying. “We don’t
know any valuable information. Not yet. At least not so far as the
Ministry’s concerned. James just had a dream, that’s all. Uncle Harry
might understand the significance of such a thing. But his bosses would
think he was daft if he brought it to them. James probably did him a favour,
not telling him about it.”
Thinking about it that way, James felt slightly better. Not a lot, but a
little. Wordlessly, for lack of anything better to do with the remaining hours
before dinnertime, the three clambered over the stone wall and meandered
down toward the lake, watching the stiff breeze as it skated over the
treetops and rippled the mirror of the lake, listening to the companionable,
if somewhat tense silence between them.
It wasn’t that James had never lied to his dad before. He’d lied to
him on loads of occasions, regarding everything from windows broken
while playing Winkles and Augers to who had left the Quidditch rulebook
lying outside in the rain after an argument about blatant blatching.
But he had never lied about anything as serious as this, about
anything that might get both he, and perhaps even his father, into serious
trouble with people who could imprison all of them.
A pit of unease lay in his stomach, nagging at him, growing even as
the evening rolled over the edge of the world and pulled the night behind it,
cloudy and cool and wet with fog, like a portent, a damning shroud that
chased James silently, even as he finally climbed the steps to his dormitory
and fell into bed, restless and worried.
He hoped he would dream of Petra again, perhaps even go to her, as
he had the previous week. He wanted to talk to her, to gain some assurance

that she really did mean to set everything right, and that he, James, had
done the right thing by guarding her secret even from the man whom he
loved and respected most in the whole wide world.
When he finally slept, however, he did not dream of Petra. She had
closed the conduit once more, even though it cost her much energy, and she
could not maintain it forever. James knew this, even in his sleeping mind.
The unplugged thread of her sorceress powers glowed between them,
shifting from grey, to white, to deepest red. It pulsed. Even as she closed
her end, James felt the strength of the thread banking inside him, storing up
in him like a battery.
He had absorbed her powers before, even called on them from time
to time, usually without even intending to. Her powers were foreign to him,
and completely uncontrollable. And yet he comforted in feeling the
connection, the slowly intensifying energy that pooled inside him like a
cycling dynamo.
Even in his dreaming mind, he mused: perhaps someday he would
be able to use that banked strength to protect Petra again, just as he had on
the back of the Gwyndemere those several years earlier. Only better, and
more confidently, because he had absorbed so much of that weird energy in
the time since. Petra was a sorceress, but unlike Merlin, her element wasn’t
the vast expanses of nature. She was a new kind of sorceress, and her
element was the humming hive of the city.
James’ dreaming, untethering mind mused with some tentative
comfort: since he had first connected to Petra on that fateful ocean voyage,
he had visited many, many cities. All of that absorbed sourcery strength
was inside him, banked away, just waiting for the proper moment to be
unleashed. When it came, perhaps—just perhaps—James could use it for
good.
If, of course, it didn’t kill him first.

6. ORDINANCE THIRTEEN
Despite Zane’s advice, James had deliberately left out any reference
to Professor Odin-Vann when he told the others about his dream visit to
Petra. This was because, deep down, he was still half certain that the
appearance of the professor was the vision’s only truly imaginary element,
culled by his dreaming mind from thoughts earlier that day.
And yet, as the next week began, James became suspicious that the
professor was giving him furtive, sharp-eyed looks at unexpected
moments. He noticed it for first time during Monday’s breakfast, a
decidedly gloomy affair beneath an iron-grey caul of autumn clouds. The
low sky hulked both outside the windows and in the upper recesses of the
Great Hall, hiding the rafters within a fog of fine rain that, while never quite
reaching the candles or the tables below, left the students hunkered, their
voices subdued. James glanced toward the dais and caught the skinny
young professor eyeing him sharply, his chin raised and craning, his hair
combed in a glossy black wing across his forehead. He saw James’ look
and his head retracted between his shoulders like something on a spring, his
eyes darting away. As James watched, the professor maneuvered a carafe
of pumpkin juice slightly, as if to hide behind it.
It happened again that afternoon, in the halls between classes as the
professor stood in the doorway of his classroom, his eyes sharp, watching

James as he shouldered through the throng of students toward History of
Magic. And again, unmistakably, in the library that evening, as James
caught a glimpse of the professor between the bookcases, ostensibly reading
a thick book but peering furtively at up from beneath his lowered brow.
The following day’s Charms class was cancelled at the last minute
with no appearance by the professor at all. James and the rest of the class
were informed, after waiting for nearly a quarter of an hour, that Professor
Odin-Vann had unexpectedly taken ill.
“Merely a trifle,” Professor Votary assured them from the Charms
classroom door, the irony in his eyes clearly editorializing the new teacher’s
absence as well as announcing it. “I’m sure he shall bounce back in a trice
and feel quite the dandy for cancelling class at such short notice.” He
lowered his voice beneath the sudden noise of hastily packing bags and
scraping chairs. “Something I never would have done, of course, cancel a
class over a mere sniffle and cough. But, alas, young men these days don’t
seem to be built with quite the same constitution as those of the older
generation.”
And it seemed that the Ancient Runes professor was right after all,
for as James and a few dozen other students gathered around the a notice
board that evening, discussing the Quidditch tryouts announcement that had
just been posted, he saw Professor Odin-Vann at the end of the hall,
seemingly perfectly healthy, standing with his wand in his hand, pointed at
the floor. The man seemed to be watching James, and this time, when
James met his gaze, the professor didn’t glance away. James did not have
on his spectacles, of course, so he couldn’t quite make out Odin-Vann’s
expression. But he seemed to sense a sort of watchful resignation in the
man’s posture and the set of his face.
James was tempted to disengage from the group near the notice
board and approach Odin-Vann right then and there. The professor must
have sensed James’ thoughts, however, for at that moment he turned, his
robes flowing beneath the angles of his sharp elbows and knees, and stalked
away, turning along an intersection and vanishing from sight.
James glared at the now empty corridor where Odin-Vann had stood
a moment before. Was the man actually avoiding him? Impulsively, James
launched along the hall in pursuit of him, using his long legs to carry him
swiftly and quietly without resorting to an outright run. He reached the
intervening corridor quickly, knowing that Odin-Vann would have

disappeared into any of the myriad side passages, stairways, and doors.
Instead, he nearly ran into the professor, who had stopped just beyond the
angle of the corner, his shoulders slumped as if he had been magically
turned off.
“Professor!” James said, skidding to a halt, the surprise in his voice
sharpening it to a half-shout.
The young man startled so violently that he fumbled the wand in his
hand. It clattered to the floor and rolled, even as the professor dropped to a
squat and scrambled for it, his shoulders cinching up next to his ears like
the wings of a vulture. He tried to stand and spin around at the same time,
wheeling on James, but the movement was clumsy and James had to reach
out an arm to steady the man before he stumbled sideways into the wall.
Footsteps echoed behind James, following him. He didn’t need to
look to know that it was Ralph and Rose, curious to see why James had run
off.
Odin-Vann attempted to compose himself as quickly as he could
before the newcomers arrived. He brushed a hand frantically down his
robes, straightening them, and then smoothed his fingers compulsively over
the thick hank of hair on his forehead, pushing it back into place.
“Mr. Potter,” he said, raising his chin as if he meant to wield his
pointed beard like a dagger. “You shouldn’t startle people so. You never
know how a trained witch or wizard might respond.” He gripped his wand
tightly, as if to imply that only practiced control had prevented him from
reflexively turning James into a frog.
“You were there, weren’t you?” James asked quickly, his voice
lowered. “I saw you, and you saw me. That’s why you’ve been watching
me. You’re trying to figure out if I was really there. Just like I’m doing
with you.”
James had to give the young professor credit. The expression on his
face didn’t change a tick, but the color drained from it so quickly that he
swayed on his feet. His fist relaxed on his wand.
“What’s this?” Ralph asked, breathing hard as he caught up. “Hi,
professor. Feeling better, I hope?”
Rose had heard James’ question, however. She moved next to him
and studied Odin-Vann’s face. “You were there?” she said, a suspicious lilt
in her voice. A second later, her eyes blazed and she turned on James. “He
was there?! Why didn’t you tell us?!” She pointed at the thin man, who

heaved a deep, resigned sigh and sagged slightly.
“Let us at least not discuss this in the halls,” he growled, rolling his
dark eyes. “My quarters are nearby, such as they are. Come.”
He turned and swept away, moving into the dimness of the corridor,
nearly vanishing into it. James glanced back at Rose and Ralph, surprised
into silence. After a moment, Odin-Vann paused and glanced impatiently
back over his shoulder.
“Come!” he called, inserting a note of impatient command into his
otherwise hushed voice.
Speaking volumes with her eyes alone, Rose glared at James, and
then trotted to follow the teacher. Breathlessly, James and Ralph hurried to
join her.
The professor’s quarters were not, in fact, around the next corner, as
the man had inferred. Odin-Vann led them briskly through turn after turn,
into narrower hallways and down short flights of steps, into a section of the
castle that James had never before seen. Here, there were no classrooms or
offices, only ranks of doors, small and warped in their stone frames, squat
and close together. Finally, stopping in a damp, nondescript corridor, the
professor tapped a tarnished door handle with his wand, causing the door to
unlatch loudly and creak partway open.
“Home, sweet home,” he said, pushing the door fully open and
ducking slightly to enter. He didn’t invite James, Rose, and Ralph inside.
He merely left the door open and assumed they would follow.
James had been in several of the teachers’ quarters before, but this
was by far the smallest and most spartan of any of them. The room seemed
barely larger than a maintenance closet, crammed with a single bed against
the far wall, beneath a single narrow window, next to a single, albeit very
large, open leather trunk on a rickety three-drawer bureau. Across from this
was a sagging Chesterfield sofa and a tall desk nearly obliterated beneath
mounds of paperwork, tools, a huge magnifying glass on an articulated
stand, a precariously leaning tea tray, and a thick book James recognized as
the Charms class textbook: The Caster’s Lexicon of Spells, Charms, &
Hexes. The professor’s copy was dog-eared, fat with use, and crammed
with bookmarks and slips of parchment.
“I’ll make this brief, and I shall deny every word should you choose
to repeat it,” Odin-Vann announced, remaining standing but indicating the
sofa with one hand. With the other, he flicked his wand at the door, which

swung shut with a sweep of air and a heavy clap. Once again, James
noticed the Professor’s magical prowess in the wake of a moment of stress.
He wondered, perhaps unfairly, if the professor would have been capable of
something as simple as closing the door a few minutes earlier, when James
had first confronted him in the hall.
Ralph plopped onto the couch, which moaned under his weight.
Rose lowered herself onto the other end. James, however, stood in front of
the closed door, observing the professor in the cramped space.
“So you really were there, then,” he confirmed, cocking his head.
In answer, Odin-Vann turned to the desk and began to shuffle
papers, seemingly randomly. “How long have you three known her?” he
asked. Without waiting for an answer, he went on, “I met Petra right here in
school. I was a seventh-year, like you. She was a first year. A strange
bridge for friendship to cross, but it happens sometimes. We had similar
family situations, you see. She was being raised by her grandfather, who
loved her, and his new wife, who did not. It was an unhappy arrangement,
and Petra rarely spoke of it, but I recognized the silence. I had a similar
home life, being raised by an uncle and his wife and his much older
children. None of them wanted me there, and took pains to make certain I
knew it. I had come to terms with it, having lived it all of my school years.
I had hardened a bit. Petra had not yet hardened. And in my heart, I didn’t
want her to. So I befriended her. We became secret allies. I watched out
for her. It was a brief but important acquaintance. I expect she shared more
with me during that one year than she did with any other school mates over
the following six.”
He handled the magnifying glass on its articulated arm, moving it
into a new position, apparently merely to give his hands something to do.
He glanced back toward the three students, but not at them, exactly.
“I knew she was powerful, even then. Although I had no idea how
much, or why. I just knew that she was special. Later, when I heard about
what happened in Muggle New York City, on the Night of the Unveiling, I
trusted, deep down, that Petra had had a good reason for whatever she did.
She was always powerful and passionate, and she has a lot of buried anger
—one can’t blame her for that, what with her upbringing—but she was
never driven by it. She may use her anger sometimes, like a healer uses a
blade, to lance and excise, but never like a villain with a dagger, to threaten
and kill.”

“Is that why you went to her?” Rose asked from the couch, leaning
forward with interest. “To help her, once the rest of the magical world
turned on her?”
Odin-Vann finally looked at Rose, and blinked. “Oh, I didn’t go to
Petra. How could I? No one knew where she was. And frankly, despite
everything, I wasn’t even positive that she’d really remember me. Both of
us have changed quite a lot in the many years since we were friends. She
was just a child then. I was…” He shrugged and shook his head faintly.
“Well, I was just a gawky teenager, more full of ego than wisdom, but
willing to spew either to anyone who would give me an ear.” He continued
to shake his head wryly, and then looked back at Rose. “No, I didn’t go to
Petra. She came to me. It was only a few months ago. She needed help,
you see. She has all the power, does Petra, but she doesn’t have all the
knowledge, and she is smart enough to know it. It turned out that she
remembered her old friend Donofrio after all. She came to me, and asked
for my help. And I granted it, of course. But in secret.” He pressed his lips
together tightly, eyeing all three students with an air of wary annoyance.
“Until now.”
“We’re safe,” Ralph said pointedly, glancing around at the others.
“In case you were wondering.”
“Oh, I know,” Odin-Vann admitted. “Petra told me whom I could
trust, should I have need to. I believed her, and yet I wasn’t certain I really
could trust any of you. Not because you weren’t on her side, but because
you’re, well…” He stopped abruptly and blinked at the three students.
James suddenly understood. “Because we’re just teenagers,” he
prompted. “It’s OK. You can say it. Maybe we aren’t trustworthy because
we’re just clumsy, loud-mouthed students who don’t have any clue about
how the grown-up world works.”
Odin-Vann shook his head at James. “No, not like that. I mean…
yes. A little like that. But you misunderstand me.”
“That’s good,” Rose commented a bit archly. “Because believe it or
not, we’ve been through the gauntlet more than once in our years. You’ve
no idea.”
“Actually, I do.” Odin-Vann said in a different voice. James looked
at him and saw a new expression on the man’s face. All the suspicion and
caginess had finally gone out of it. He looked at them directly, settling his
gaze on James. “Petra told me some of the things you lot have gone

through on her behalf. She told me about the World Between the Worlds.
She told me about the Gatekeeper’s curse, and how you intervened to
protect her from herself. She said that you three, and some American
named Zane Walker, have always been there for her, that you’ve faced
things that most grown witches and wizards would run screaming from. I
didn’t quite believe her, I admit. Because there’s so much at stake, you see.
If we trusted you, and you didn’t come through—if you got caught
somehow, or blabbed to the wrong schoolmate—well, I was just thinking of
Petra’s mission. She mustn’t be stopped, you see. You know that as well as
I. I had to be absolutely certain that you were exactly as competent and
trustworthy as Petra said. So I watched.”
Ralph shifted on the end of the couch, narrowing his eyes slightly.
“And what did you decide?”
Odin-Vann cocked his head at Ralph’s question, as if surprised and
bemused by it. “Well. You didn’t give me much of a chance, did you? You
three chased me down and proved you were as quick and observant and
bold as Petra said. I hadn’t yet made up my mind, but I suppose I have
now. Whether I like it or not.”
“I lied to my dad today,” James said. There was both guilt and
defiance in his voice. The words cost him something to say. He sank onto
the arm of the sofa, his eyes still on Odin-Vann. “I’ve done loads of things
for Petra. Faced demons from another world. Battled Salazar Slytherin in
another time. Been cursed and frozen and threatened. But lying to my
dad…” He shook his head and finally dropped his eyes. “That was the
hardest thing of all.”
“Your dad,” Odin-Vann mused, half to himself. “Harry Potter, yes?
The man of myth and legend, of course. But most importantly, the current
head of the Auror Department, chief of wizarding law enforcement.” He
nodded at James soberly. “That must have been very difficult for you. But
let me assure you, you did the right thing. The necessary thing. And I can
promise you, were he in your shoes, knowing what you know, he would
have done the same thing.”
“You know that, do you?” James said wearily, glancing up again.
Odin-Vann shrugged and gave a tiny smile. “I do. I’ve read
Revalvier’s books. At least a dozen times, in fact.”
Rose spoke again, this time in a hushed voice. “You helped Petra
make a Horcrux.”

Odin-Vann startled and turned to Rose, his eyes blinking rapidly. A
flash of something like anger reddened his cheeks, and then he reconsidered
and slumped to the bed, producing a loud squeak from its old springs.
“She didn’t really need my help. Not with the spellcasting. All she
needed was my encouragement. And in that respect, I did indeed help.
And why not? She’d already committed the murder. Justified and right as
it may have been, it was still a murder. The blood has stained her ever
since. There was no point in her not using it. You were there when she
summoned the power, James, converting her dagger into a talisman of
immortality. You saw and heard. Or am I mistaken?”
James shook his head. “She had to do it to protect herself. She has
to live, no matter how many people want to kill her. She has to survive so
she can replace the Crimson Thread and set everything right again.”
“Yes!” Odin-Vann hissed, pointing at James with enthusiasm.
“Nothing must stop her! The Horcrux isn’t to prolong her life for her own
sake! It’s for the good of the world!”
James was taken slightly aback by the strength of the man’s words.
He was nearly spitting with the force of them. For the first time, James
wondered if there was something more than civic duty motivating the
young professor. Was he, perhaps, secretly in love with Petra? He was
several years older than her, and yet James knew very well that differences
in age were of little consequence to the blind compulsion of love. A worm
of jealousy moved deep inside him.
“But it doesn’t end there,” Ralph said, his eyes still narrowed at
Odin-Vann, calculating, measuring him with something that almost looked
like cautious suspicion. “It doesn’t end with the Horcrux. Does it?”
Odin-Vann shook his head, growing somber again. “No. I’m afraid
it does not. And that’s why I was watching you.” He chewed his lips and
drew a deep sigh through his nose. Finally, almost reluctantly, he went on,
now speaking in a near whisper. “Petra won’t be able to accomplish her
task on her own. She will need help. There are very few people she can
call on. She’s already reached out to me, and there are two others she has
mentioned. But she will need you as well. If you choose to help. She did
not wish me to ask. But I’m asking anyway.”
A mixture of worry and anticipation brewed in James at OdinVann’s words. The reality of Petra’s plan took hold of him firmly. She
would assume her role as the Crimson Thread from that other dimension,

vanishing forever from her native destiny. He would never see or hear from
her again. And against every passion and desire of his heart, he had to help
her accomplish this task. He nodded slowly at Odin-Vann.
“We’ll help. We’ll do whatever we have to.”
“Good,” Odin-Vann said, restraining his excitement with some
effort. “Because it won’t be easy. For some of us, it may be the hardest
thing we ever do.” He eyed James as he said this, and James wondered if
the professor knew. Probably he did. Petra may have told him, or she may
not have. According to Rose, Albus, Scorpius, and even Zane, James’ love
for Petra was as plain as the nose on his face.
Odin-Vann nodded again, quickly and resolutely. As he spoke, he
climbed back to his feet. “So be it. I will summon you when the time
comes. It won’t be easy, but I am trusting your cunning and resolve.”
“Who else did she reach out to?” It was Ralph who asked. He was
still sitting on the couch, his head cocked, his eyes intent.
“I don’t think I am quite at liberty to say—”
“Zane,” Ralph interrupted. “It has to be. I’m right, aren’t I?”
Odin-Vann slumped impatiently. “If so, only in the past day. She
had considered it when last we spoke, but had not acted on it. The other
person, she has been in correspondence with for several weeks.”
James wondered for a moment if the other person was him. That
couldn’t be it, though. He could connect to her via their shared thread, but
it could hardly be said that she had corresponded with him. The worm of
jealousy in his heart fanned out and became a hooded snake. Who could it
be? Why was it not him?
“So you see Petra regularly, then, eh?” Ralph asked, lifting his chin.
“That’s a pretty keen interest for a bloke who knew her for exactly one year,
and nearly a decade ago at that.”
“Ralph,” Rose asked from the corner of her mouth, leaning to nudge
the boy as he glared at Odin-Vann. “Enough with the questions. What’s
wrong with you?”
“I’ve a keen interest,” Odin-Vann answered, standing straight and
cooling his voice. “Because the fate of the magical world—indeed, all
worlds—hangs in the balance. I would think that was obvious.”
“Ralph,” James muttered, reaching for the door latch and tugging it
open behind him. “Let’s go, eh?”
“You say you didn’t know if we could be trusted,” Ralph said,

standing now, but not moving toward the door. “And for good reason.
You’re right. There’s a whole world at stake. But what about you? Petra
may trust you, Professor. But that doesn’t mean we have to. Not yet, at
least.”
James didn’t know whether he felt more proud of Ralph’s stubborn
suspicion or mortified by it. Odin-Vann, for his part, merely met Ralph’s
eyes, unflinching, but neither offering any defence or argument.
Rose tugged Ralph’s sleeve, pulling him toward the door. At first,
James didn’t think Ralph was going to come. Then, finally, the big boy
submitted, turning and following Rose and James from the room, offering
no word in departure. As they filed into the hall, the wooden door clunked
shut behind them.
“Way to go, Ralph,” James breathed, shaking his head as they strode
back the way they’d come. “Insult the one grown-up who seems to be on
Petra’s side.”
“He’s no grown-up,” Ralph muttered, his eyes still narrowed. “He’s
barely older than us, no matter what his actual age. And he’s as dodgy as
the day is long.”
Rose glanced from Ralph to James as they paced into the evening
dark of the corridors. “I don’t know which one of you is right,” she
admitted. “Maybe both, maybe neither. But I do know this: Professor
Odin-Vann is our best hope for helping Petra. We may not have to trust
him. But we can trust her.” She paused to consider this for a moment, and
then gave an agitated shrug. “Hopefully.”
With that hanging in the air between them, none of them spoke
during the rest of the trek back to their dormitories.

No matter how prepared James believed he was to assist Petra on
her final mission, he hadn’t been prepared to hear from Professor OdinVann about it quite so quickly. He was at lunch that Friday when a stiff

index finger poked him hard on the shoulder, startling him. He turned, half
expecting to see the obnoxious twit Edgar Edgecombe and his first-year
cronies grinning maliciously at him. Instead, he was met with the thin chest
and faintly mouldy smell of Argus Filch, who was standing immediately
behind him. James looked to see the man glaring down at him, his stubbly
chin bristling.
“Detention, Mr. Potter,” he said from between gritted teeth.
“Compliments of Professor Odin-Vann.” He stabbed out something in his
left hand. James flinched back from it, and then saw that it was a rolled
parchment, sealed with a blot of shiny red wax. Tentatively, he reached for
it and plucked it from the caretaker’s horny fingers.
Filch leaned close and growled, “The professor invokes Ordinance
Thirteen, Mr. Potter. You are familiar with that ordinance, I trust?”
James shook his head.
Filch clucked his tongue. “It means your punishment is not to be
discussed with any other students. It’s a stipulation meant to avoid rumours
during strict, unresolved disciplinary sentences. My, my, my, Mr. Potter,”
he shook his head with mock concern. “What have you done this time?”
A moment later, the caretaker creaked away, leaving a pall of cold
silence in his wake. James hunkered low and tucked the rolled parchment
into his robes, anxious to read its contents but knowing he dare not in such
a public place.
“What did you do?” Graham asked softly, morbidly impressed.
“Now, now,” Scorpius chided. “Ordinance Thirteen, you know. We
wouldn’t want our curiosity to suck us into whatever fate is about to befall
the young hooligan, would we?”
As James watched furtively, he saw Filch approach Rose where she
sat further down the table. The caretaker didn’t need to tap her on the
shoulder. She saw him coming, and her eyes were bright with glassy
trepidation. James didn’t have to guess that Filch’s next stop would be at
the Slytherin table.
But, in fact, that did not happen. After serving Rose her own small
scroll, which she tucked quickly into her knapsack, Filch ambled toward the
rear of the Hall and his customary place next to the doors. He turned and
gave a nasty wink and nod toward the dais, content with the completion of
his favorite duties.
James turned on his seat. Donofio Odin-Vann was watching from

the head table. His gaze did not dart away this time as James looked at him,
but neither did he show any sign of secret communication. Whatever James
needed to know, it would apparently be on the sealed scroll currently in his
pocket.
He ate as quickly as he could and stood to leave well before anyone
else. Eyes watched him from all around, some impressed, like Graham, and
others merely grimly curious. James ignored the stares and whispers as
well as he could as he hoiked his knapsack onto his back, and was just
shouldering through the double doors into the entrance hall when a girl’s
voice called out to him, surprising him in his tracks.
He turned around in the deserted entryway, expecting to see Rose.
Instead, Millie Vandergriff followed him through the double doors,
allowing them to creak shut behind her.
“What sort of trouble are you in?” she asked, her voice a mixture of
warm concern and delicious conspiracy. “Does it have to do with that
stupid interview? We did everything we could to keep you from jamming
both feet into your mouth, but puppets can only do so much…”
James shook his head and rolled his eyes. “No. I can’t really talk
about it. Ordinance thirteen, apparently. It could get you into trouble, too.”
Millie gave a wry smile. “How very noble of you to be so
concerned with my welfare. Can you at least tell me about it when it’s all
over?”
“I suppose so,” James shrugged distractedly, edging backwards
across the entrance hall, anxious for a moment alone to read Odin-Vann’s
note. “If you really want to know. But, it might not be what you expect.”
“I do want to know,” Millie said with a firm nod. “And I imagine
it’s exactly the last thing any of us would expect. That’s why I’m curious.”
“What do you mean?” James paused, allowing Millie to join him in
the centre of the floor.
“You’re James Potter, aren’t you?” She smiled again and cocked
her head. Her eyes were very blue, sparkling with something like mischief
in the dimness of the entrance hall. “You went into the Chamber of Secrets
after Petra Morganstern when she kidnapped your sister. You were in the
Hogwarts Express engine with Headmaster Merlin when the train nearly
went over a cliff, and you both saved it, along with the rest of us. You were
right there in the middle of it on the Night of the Unveiling.” She arched
one eyebrow sardonically. “You do seem to get into loads of trouble,

James, but it’s not usually of the detention variety. Frankly, I’m a little
jealous.”
“Of me?” James frowned in surprise. “Believe me, you wouldn’t
want to be in the sorts of trouble I’ve been in.” He sighed briskly and ran a
hand through his messy hair, adding, “And still am in, actually.”
Millie took another small step closer, drawing James into her gaze.
“I’m not jealous of you, silly. Believe it or not, you aren’t just the son of
Harry Potter anymore. When people talk about you in the dormitories and
common rooms, they’re not telling stories about what happened a few
decades ago to your dad. They’re talking about the things you’ve done
yourself. You don’t know that, do you? You’re a bit of a legendary figure
yourself these days. You, and Ralph Deedle, and Zane Walker, and Rose
Weasley.” Her eyes ticked to the side and she reached up, combed a stray
lock of blonde hair behind her ear. “It’s her I’m a little jealous of.”
“Why?” James asked incredulously, frowning. “Her biggest job
seems to be constantly reminding us of how we’re going to ruin the whole
universe by tinkering with super dangerous stuff and how she’d be so much
smarter and quicker doing the dangerous tinkering instead.”
Millie tilted her head ironically, her eyes meeting his again. “I’m
jealous of Rose Weasley because I’d rather be the one standing beside you
when the next adventure starts. And I’d never tell you how you’d ruin
anything. Except perhaps me for any other boys.”
James’ frown turned quizzical. He blinked at her sparkling blue
gaze. She seemed barely inches from him in the shadows of the entrance
hall. He could smell her shampoo and a hint of perfume. “What… do you
mean?”
In a whisper, she said, “Do I need to get out the Hufflepuppet Pals
and have them spell it out for you?”
And then she leaned forward slightly, raising her chin to his, and
kissed him. It was a light kiss, more playful than romantic, on the corner of
his mouth. But the sudden sensation of her lips on his, both warm and soft,
teasing and sensual all at once, exploded in his mind and body like magical
fireworks, blotting out every other thought. He stood dazed as she took a
step back from him, smiling faintly.
“Go read your note and attend to your detention,” she prodded him.
“But do tell me what you’re up to later, if you are willing. I want to be a
part of it. In whatever way I can. If you’ll let me.”

Behind her, the Great Hall doors pushed open again, disgorging a
group of Ravenclaws, all chattering noisily. The lunchtime crowd inside
was rising, gathering their books and knapsacks, preparing to return to
classes. Millie turned to thread back inside, probably to retrieve her own
books. She was lost in the crowd after only a few paces.
James didn’t move. He could still feel the spot on the corner of his
mouth where Millie had kissed him. It tingled like magic. Fleetingly,
helplessly, he wondered if magic had been involved somehow. Had she
used some illicitly charmed lip-gloss to stun him? Was it even now
freezing him to the spot, turning him into a human statue of awestruck
surprise?
He glanced down at himself. He could move, after all. Clumsily, he
turned around, hefted his knapsack again, and hurried across the entrance
hall toward the staircase, remembering the note in his robes, and OdinVann’s supposed detention. Suddenly, all of it seemed slightly less
important. Perhaps even a little fun. He would read whatever the young
professor had written, and probably with Rose’s help (or Millie’s? The
thought suddenly tantalized him immensely) he would do whatever was
required.
Millie Vandergriff, he mused, had indeed worked magic on him.
But it wasn’t the sort of magic they taught in Charms class, or even Defence
Against the Dark Arts. It was the oldest magic in a very old human book.
And apparently, happily, there was no defence against that kind of magic at
all.

7. THE TRYOUT HE DIDN'T MISS
James finally opened and read the note in the minutes before his
afternoon Divination class, waiting alone next to the ladder that led up to
Professor Trelawney’s perfumed and poufed classroom. He could hear the
professor moving above, rearranging things and humming tunelessly to
herself, emitting a faint jingle from her omnipresent bangles, beads, and
bracelets.
He broke the seal and unrolled the scroll between his hands. The
words were handwritten and scribbled, as if the writer had been either
careless or in a hurry.
Detention tonight, 9 PM. Amphitheater.
A surge of relief washed over James, despite the note’s banality. A
dreadful suspicion had come upon him as he traversed the halls to the North
Tower. This evening, he’d recalled, was the Quidditch tryouts. As Deirdre
and Graham had pointedly reminded him on First Night, James had been
rather cursed over the years with being unable to attend the tryouts—or
failing miserably when he did. With that in mind, he had become grimly
certain that the detention from Odin-Vann (and whatever unavoidable
mission it entailed) would conflict with his final Quidditch tryout,

completing his perfect record of misses and failures.
Odin-Vann’s nine o’clock detention, however, was happily past the
time of the scheduled tryouts. He might go to the pitch distracted by what
was to come later that evening, but at least he would go to the pitch, and
that was what mattered.
He wondered for a moment why Odin-Vann had chosen the
amphitheater. Probably it was because the large outdoor space would be
completely deserted, as it usually was when night descended. If anyone
was still lingering around (it was, if nothing else, a rather popular snogging
spot, James knew) Odin-Vann could dismiss the surprised loiterers.
In Divination class, Rose sat next to James and scribbled notes, none
of which, James knew, had much to do with divination. Professor
Trelawney burbled on before her fireplace, tossing pinches of spices and
powdered tinctures into the flames to create bursts of colorful sparks,
inviting the students to “summon a trancelike state of receptiveness to the
Fire Omens”.
James felt, as he usually did in Trelawney’s class, most receptive of
all to a nap. He shuffled the scattering of Octocards on the small table
before him, and then became aware of Rose glaring at him. He glanced at
her and she darted her eyes toward her notes, which she nudged slightly
toward him.
Written at the bottom in her neat, small handwriting, was:
Amphitheater tonight?
James gave a small nod.
Rose used her quill to scribble out her note, and then added two
more words: No Ralph??
James had observed the same thing, of course. He shrugged and
shook his head.
Rose absorbed this with no change in expression. Dutifully, she
scribbled out that note as well.
James allowed his gaze to drift over the room until he spied Ralph
seated next to Trenton Bloch on a pair of burgundy poufs. Ralph looked
ridiculous and uncomfortable, of course, balancing his gangly body on the
cushion, which seemed ready to burst beneath him. His book was balanced
on his knees, but the boy was paying it no attention. His eyes were halflidded, drooping as James watched. The Head Boy badge glimmered silver
on his robes, catching the light of the fire and the bursts of colorful sparks.

Maybe that was what was behind Ralph’s suspicions about OdinVann, and the professor’s exclusion of him from tonight’s so-called
detention. Perhaps Ralph’s position as Head Boy made him seem just a bit
too institutional to be trusted with what was likely to be an extremely secret
assignment.
James regretted Ralph’s exclusion. And yet he reminded himself
that Ralph had, as recently as First Night, expressed his deepest desire to
stay out of any unexpected adventures during his final year.
Later that evening, James wolfed his dinner as quickly as possible,
then ran upstairs to his dormitory to change into jeans and a sweatshirt
against the cool of the evening. Grabbing his Thunderstreak from under his
bed, he clutched the broom against his shoulder and tramped down the
steps, taking two at a time.
He was determined to arrive at the pitch early, and at this, for the
first time ever, he succeeded.
Beneath a sky dimming from azure to purple, a stiff breeze buffeted
the grass of the pitch, which was already filling with students. Like James,
most carried their brooms slung over their shoulders, while others bobbed
on them low over the grass, congregating in excited airborne knots. The
house grandstands were filling with observers, some hooting and calling
cheerfully to each other. In the Gryffindor grandstand, James saw Professor
McGonagall sidling into a seat next to Neville Longbottom, who saw
James’ look and nodded at him encouragingly.
With a practiced flip, James dropped his broom forward, allowing it
to dip and bob up next to him. He caught it, threw a leg over it, and kicked
upwards, letting it carry him into the cool air. Spying Graham Warton and
the Gryffindor group gathering in the shadow of the burgundy grandstand,
James piloted over to join them, making a long lazy arc around the goal
rings.
“First-years,” Graham called out, raising a hand to his mouth.
“Here’s your chance. Grab a broom, get it in the air, and let’s see if you can
lap the pitch.”
The first-years tryout, James knew, was mostly just tradition, ever
since his own dad had earned a spot on the team at the age of eleven. In
truth, it was extremely unlikely that any of the youngest students would
earn a place on the team, unless they were almost supernaturally talented.
Sanjay Yadev was among the few first-years who made the attempt,

and the look of stubborn determination on his face was both inspiring and a
little comical. The boy kicked off and succeeded in completing a single,
swift lap about the pitch, easily overshadowing the other three.
“Not bad,” Graham called with a nod. “Now let’s see you dodge a
Bludger.”
One of the leather balls was trapped under Graham’s foot, straining
and wriggling frantically to get loose. Graham raised his foot and the ball
squirted into the air. Graham used the bat in his hand to give the Bludger a
directing whallop, aiming it for Sanjay where he slewed to a halt in mid-air,
suddenly wide-eyed.
The Bludger angled up at the boy, emitting a low whistle as it spun.
Flustered, Sanjay seemed to attempt both a left and right feint at the
same time, yelped in sudden terror, and then turned away, throwing both
arms up around his head. The Bludger struck the tail of his broom, sending
the boy into a spin. Secretly, James gave Sanjay credit for not being thrown
from his broom entirely.
The gathered Gryffindors broke into laughing applause as Sanjay
recovered and drifted down to the pitch, his cheeks burning in
embarrassment.
“Next year, Yadev,” Graham called encouragingly. “You’ve got the
control. Now you just need to get bruised a little. Have your sisters pelt
you with apples all next summer. Get used to things flying at your head at
deadly speed. You do that and maybe we’ll have a spot for you.”
James felt his chest tighten, knowing that his turn was now up. He
glanced around and noticed that, apart from him, almost everyone waiting
had been on last year’s team. Lily swooped alongside him on her trusty old
Shuriken and gave him a sideways smile.
“You’re here, at least,” she commented with mock surprise. “That’s
a victory, whether you make the team or not.”
“Thanks,” James muttered, tightening his grip on his broom.
“Don’t worry about it, big brother,” she said, lowering her voice.
“You’ll do fine. I’ll let you have a free goal if you like?”
James was tempted for a moment, but shook his head. “No. I need
to own this. Don’t do me any favours.”
Lily nodded and leaned forward, propelling up toward the goals so
fast that her cloak snapped behind her like a flag.
James sucked in a deep breath, held it, and launched upwards as

well, joining the swirl of players overhead and doing his best to tune out the
observers from the stands and the confusion of the other teams as they
conducted their own tryouts all around.
As the ground fell away and the evening wind buffeted through his
hair, the tension in James’ chest was slowly replaced by a sort of eager
serenity. He knew what he was doing, after all. Lily was right: he had
made it to the pitch. Strangely enough, the most difficult challenge was
already over. All he had to do now was show what he knew. And despite a
late affinity to broom-riding (it was no skrim, after all), he now knew quite
a lot.
As the evening sky compressed from azure to deep indigo, James
performed his laps, each one faster than the other, flashing past the goal
rings as Lily applauded and cheered him on. He dodged and feinted as
Graham swatted Bludgers at him, and much to James’ surprise and relief
not a single one made contact. He took three shots at goal as Deirdre tossed
Quaffles up to him. One missed, another bounced off Lily’s broom handle
as she spun to swat it away, and the third sailed through clean, neatly
threading between her outstretched hands.
Finally, since James was trying out for Seeker, Graham released a
Snitch, letting it swoop and circle up into the night sky, darting like a
golden dragonfly in the dying light. James chased it, knowing that he had
bare seconds before the tiny winged ball was lost amongst the rest of the
swirling players from all four teams. He ducked and slalomed through
Slytherins and Ravenclaws, who called out in annoyance at his passage. He
barely avoided colliding mid-air with Julien Jackson, dropping beneath her
like a stone before rocketing up again, swooping to meet the snitch as it
streaked past her shoulder.
Dimly, James realized that someone was tracking alongside him,
mirroring him like a shadow.
“Should I let you have this?” a familiar voice called, straining to
keep pace but teasingly jovial. “Or do I take it now and save you from
future embarrassments?”
James could think of no response as his brother careened along next
to him, nearly shoulder to shoulder, also tracking the Snitch.
The golden ball dipped and angled downward like a missile. James
dove, driving his broom straight down after it, committed to catching it
even if it meant cratering himself in the pitch below. Albus whooped and

lunged to follow.
James reached, straining, nearly climbing off the end of his broom,
and felt the wings of the Snitch beating against his fingers. Next to him,
Albus broke off the chase as the ground swam dreadfully up beneath.
At the last possible second, James snapped his fist closed on the
Snitch and threw himself backwards on his broom, yanking it upright with
all his strength. The force of the arrested motion made him feel as heavy as
a boulder. His legs unhinged beneath him and his shoes nearly sprang from
his feet before the unforgiving ground of the pitch flung up to meet them,
smacking them back onto his feet. His heels thudded down, but rather than
crashing, James’ feet skated along the earth, kicking up rooster-tails of dirt
and torn grass, before swooping back into the air, slowing as gravity
reluctantly gave him up.
He was panting, his hair wild and fluttering, his eyes as wide and
glassy as crystal balls. The Snitch was held in his fist so tightly that James
wondered if he’d need to pry his fingers loose one at a time. Dimly, he
became aware of the sound of cheering and laughter.
“I thought for sure you were going to smash yourself flat as a dinner
plate!” Deirdre cried, swooping alongside James and clapping him on the
back. “That was the most recklessly brilliant flying I’ve seen in forever!”
The rest of the team gathered around as James drifted to a landing
near the Gryffindor grandstand. He could still scarcely believe that he had
succeeded in catching the Snitch. As his feet touched the grass again, he
forced his fist open, revealing the tarnished golden ball and its furled wings.
A woman’s rather shrill voice spoke up from the nearby grandstand
stairs. “I don’t know whether I am more impressed by your resolve or
concerned for your lack of self-preservation,” Professor McGonagall
commented, “But allow me to remind you, Mr. Potter. It is only a game.”
James nodded at the professor faintly as she eyed him and then
turned to leave, following the rest as they streamed happily out into the
night.
A hand plucked the Snitch from James’ palm. “As much as I hate to
say it,” Graham said, throwing an arm around James’ shoulders.
“McGonagall’s right. Brilliant flying is one thing. But if you go and kill
yourself first time out, we’d be in dire straits for a Seeker the rest of the
season, wouldn’t we?”
James glanced aside at Graham, and saw that, despite the boy’s

apparent concerns, he was grinning with barely concealed excitement.
Somewhat breathlessly, James asked, “So, do I make the team?”
Graham turned suddenly businesslike and gave a shrug, stepping
away to slot the Snitch into its place in the Quidditch trunk. “I’ll write up
the roster tonight and make the official announcement sometime tomorrow.
Lots to consider. But you made a good showing. A very good showing
indeed.”
James wanted to press Graham for an answer now, but sensed that it
would be futile. Either the boy was enjoying stretching out the suspense, or
he truly didn’t know whether James would make the team or not. Either
way, there was no point in trying to winkle an answer out of him now.
“Nice one, James!” Lily said, bumping James with her shoulder as
she passed, drawing him along with her. “For a moment there, I thought I
was going to end up an only child. Frankly, I could see an upside to it.”
The rest of the team gathered around jovially as the crowd poured
away from the pitch and toward the glow of the castle. Many hands
clapped James on the back and ruffled his sweaty hair, many voices
congratulated him on an amazing, if manic, performance.
And as James joined in, laughing, glad to be, at least for the
moment, absorbed into the camaraderie of the team, he thought to himself
that he probably owed Albus a secret thanks. Whether his brother had
intended it or not, his teasing attempt to steal the Snitch had been all the
impetus James needed to risk life and limb to win it.
If James indeed made the team, he would do so on his own grit,
determination, and merit. But there was no question that it would be Albus’
brotherly rivalry that had sealed the deal.
Back at the common room, the evening’s festivities were in full
swing, what with tomorrow being Saturday and everyone’s minds full of
Quidditch and weekend cheer. James tried to adopt an air of dejected
surliness as he eventually stowed his broom, ran a comb through his wild
hair, and made his way toward the portrait hole for his “detention”. Rose
met him there, looking equally morose. But as the pair finally ducked
through, leaving behind the raucousness and warm glow of the common
room, their moods changed completely. They darted breathlessly through
the halls and down the stairs, wending their way to the far corner of the
castle and the arches to the outdoor amphitheater.
When they finally reached it, the huge doors were unlocked, leading

out to a moon-filled natural depression lined with stone seats, all
descending and arcing around the stage at the bottom. James had
participated in several events here, not the least of which being his own
performance as Treus in the Muggle Studies production of the wizarding
classic, The Triumvirate. Unlike any of those times, however, the
amphitheater was eerily empty now, silent and drifted sparsely with the first
autumn leaves. Clouds scrubbed the starry sky, occasionally blotting the full
moon and casting the amphitheater, and the forest beyond, into inky
shadow.
Donofrio Odin-Vann arrived shortly after nine, finding James and
Rose waiting in the back row, huddled in the nighttime chill.
“Right,” he said in a hushed voice, glancing around to assure that
they really were as alone as they felt. The only light was the silver moonglow and a narrow band of gold that fell from the open doors of the castle.
“I apologize for the ruse that I was forced to use to bring you here.
Ostensibly, you shall be cleaning the aisles tonight, scooping up old candy
wrappers and programs. But in truth, we have a much more important
matter to attend to.”
“Without Ralph,” Rose said, standing and brushing herself off.
Odin-Vann blinked at her as if he didn’t immediately know of whom
she spoke. “Oh. Yes. Without Mr. Deedle. We only need the three of us
this time. Inviting any more would be to increase the risk of being
noticed.” He paused and looked from Rose to James. “You don’t think I
deliberately excluded him because of his words the other night, do you?”
James stood as well, brushing dead leaves from his jeans. “Well.
The thought had crossed our minds.”
“I trust the three of you as much as any single one,” Odin-Vann said
briskly. “Which is, I must admit, exactly as far as necessity demands, and
little further. This is indeed dangerous business, as Mr. Deedle was very
correct to point out. Feel free to tell him of tonight’s mission if you feel so
inclined. I won’t prevent you, and it probably will be best for him to be
kept up to speed in case of future developments. But believe me, his lack of
involvement tonight is purely pragmatic.”
“So what’s going on?” Rose asked, hushing her own voice but
unable to hide her anticipation.
“Right,” Odin-Vann said again, glancing around at the rows of dark,
empty seats. James realized that the man was nearly crackling with nervous

energy. “Tonight, we help Petra accomplish the first and most vital
component of her plan to replace the Crimson Thread.”
The familiar sinking sensation fell over James again—the mingled
hope and reluctance he felt every time he considered Petra’s mission.
“What part is that?”
Odin-Vann looked at him directly. “We have to collect the symbolic
Crimson Thread that was left in the World Between the Worlds. Without it,
Petra cannot fully assume her role as Morgan.”
Rose blinked rapidly up at the professor. “We have to go through
the Nexus Curtain? We have to visit the place where Morgan, the evil
Petra, and Judith hid out and planned their W.U.L.F. attack on Uncle Harry
and Titus Hardcastle?” Her tone was even more hushed, bursting with
equal parts trepidation and heady excitement.
“Well, yes and no,” Odin-Vann nodded vaguely. “You won’t,
actually, Miss Weasley. But you shall perform perhaps the most important
task of all.”
Rose looked taken aback but didn’t object, at least not yet. OdinVann went on, turning to James.
“According to Petra, James, you have in your possession a
singularly useful map of the school grounds. Is that correct?”
“The Marauder’s Map?” James confirmed. “Yes, I still have it. Dad
let me use it year before last to keep an eye on Lily and Albus, making sure
they didn’t skive off on Hogsmeade weekends before they were allowed.
It’s still hidden in the bottom of my trunk.”
“And a particularly powerful cloak of invisibility?” Odin-Vann
cocked his head, his eyes nearly sparking with interest.
“Ah, no,” James admitted, drooping his shoulders. “I tried, but Dad
keeps that safe and tucked away at home. That’s caused too much trouble
in the wrong hands. He doesn’t exactly trust me with it anymore.”
Odin-Vann pressed his lips into a thin line and nodded curtly. “Ah.
Well. No matter, then. The Map is the most important tool for tonight.
Can you give it to Miss Weasley?”
James nodded and glanced at Rose. “Of course.”
“Excellent,” Odin-Vann went on, becoming intent. “Your job, then,
Miss Weasley, will be to watch the Map tonight. It may require you to be
awake all the way until dawn, but it is essential that you keep alert.”
Rose looked deeply disappointed. “You mean, I’m staying here?”

Odin-Vann nodded patiently. “I need you to stay and act as
sentinel. It is an absolutely essential duty. You must keep an eye on the
headmaster at all times. Assure he stays inside the castle. And if he does
not, if he vanishes from the Map, even for a moment, you must let us know
somehow.”
“The Protean ducks,” James suggested, glancing at Rose. “I’ll take
mine. If Merlin leaves, you can duck me a message. But,” he turned back
to Odin-Vann. “Why are we concerned with Merlin?”
“Because noble as he may be,” Odin-Vann sighed reluctantly, “he,
like the rest of the wizarding world, will attempt to capture and stop Petra.
Unlike the rest of the wizarding world, however, he may be capable of
succeeding.”
Rose agreed to this with obvious reluctance. She had never been to
the World Between the Worlds, and James knew that her curiosity about it
must be nearly overwhelming.
On the other hand, as they both knew, it was where their cousin
Lucy had died. James had a sense that this was the main reason Rose did
not push any harder to come.
“What about me?” James asked. “Will we start at Alma Aleron?
Will Petra meet us there? Is Zane involved?” At that thought, a jolt of
nervous excitement fanned out in him. “That’s why she contacted him, isn’t
it? I tried to ask him about it, but he’s been out whenever I try to raise him
on the Shard!”
Odin-Vann was shaking his head. “All of those details will come to
light soon enough. Your job, James, is to do exactly what you did a few
weeks ago, when you appeared to both Petra and myself. Your job is to
travel to her via the connection you seem to share. She has opened her
end. She expects you.”
“You mean,” James said, deflating slightly. “My task is… to go to
bed?”
Odin-Vann shrugged. “However you did it before, do it again. I am
permitted to leave the castle. You are not. But you can make your own
way to Petra, it seems. Do so this night. If it works as I believe it does, you
will travel to wherever Petra is, without anyone knowing you’ve even left
your bed. Accomplish that, and the rest will take care of itself.”
James did not feel anywhere near as certain of his ability to
accomplish this task as did Odin-Vann, but he nodded slowly, his mind

spinning.
Rose was clearly unhappy with the plan, but didn’t seem inclined to
argue about it, at least not to Odin-Vann himself. With their business
concluded, for the moment at least, the three returned to the warm glow of
the castle.
“We are clear on our roles, then?” Odin-Vann whispered, pausing
beneath a hanging lantern.
Rose nodded soberly, still frowning.
James shrugged. “I’ll do my best.”
Odin-Vann studied his face intently, and then nodded. “Give me an
hour. And then, just go to sleep. Petra will more than allow you to come
through. She will summon you. It will work. Just be prepared.”
James wasn’t entirely sure what being prepared entailed under these
circumstances, but he nodded anyway.
Odin-Vann parted from them at the next corridor. James and Rose
continued on, each lost in the dense fog of their own thoughts as they made
their way back to the common room. Outside the portrait hole, Rose
stopped James and whispered, “Do you trust him?”
James blinked at her. Amidst his mingled worries and excitement
about the night’s plan, he hadn’t even given that question any
consideration. “I… I guess so. I don’t see much reason not to.”
Rose nodded slowly, her eyes drifting. “You’re right, I suppose.
Petra trusts him, apparently. Still…”
“I’ll get you the Map,” James said, nodding to himself. “And
maybe you can hex me with a sleep charm before I go up. I feel about as
far from sleep right now as I’ve ever been.”
Rose agreed to this and the two climbed through the portrait hole,
each filled with their own stew of excitement and worry.
The common room was still half full of students. The walls rang
with loud chatter and the crackle of the fireplace. Almost no one noticed
the two students’ return.
James ran upstairs to retrieve the Map. When he came back down,
he found Rose seated on the loveseat beneath the window with Scorpius.
He could tell by the tilt of their heads that she had told him what was
happening. James wasn’t sure how he felt about that, but if it meant
Scorpius would help Rose stay awake through the night, perhaps it was for
the best. At least it meant that they weren’t fighting for the moment.

Scorpius glanced up at James as he approached. James handed his
knapsack past him to Rose. Inside it was the Marauder’s Map.
“Don’t forget to take your Duck,” Scorpius commented, arching an
eyebrow at James. “Assuming you really can.”
“I think I can,” James nodded. “I brought some of the dirt back
from the place I went to last time. I think I can take with me whatever I’m
holding. My biggest problem is going to be getting to sleep at all.”
Scorpius shrugged. “Rose is a treat with a sleep charm. You’ll
probably collapse on the stairs before you reach the first-years dormitory.
Say hello to your daft American friend, should you see him.”
James smiled at the thought of Zane, even under these
circumstances. Scorpius pretended not to like the blonde American, but
James knew better. Wherever Zane and Scorpius weren’t complete
opposites, they were extremely alike. “I’ll give him all your love,” he
agreed.
The three whiled away a disconsolate half-hour as the common
room crowd slowly thinned. James was anxious to be underway, assuming
the plan would work, but tried to obey Odin-Vann’s timeframe as much as
his patience would allow.
Finally, he stood and admitted that he could wait no longer. Rose
nodded, drew her wand surreptitiously from the pocket of her jeans and
flicked it at James, muttering something under her breath.
Nothing happened visibly, but James stumbled backwards a step as
something soft seemed to whump him in the chest. He blinked and a wave
of pleasant dizziness fell over him,
“Off with you,” Rose commanded urgently. “Scorpius is right.
You’ll be dreaming on the stairs if you don’t hurry.”
James turned and made his way to the entrance to the boys’
dormitory. The floor seemed to tilt gently beneath him, pulling him off
course so that he bumped the edge of the door with his shoulder. The
sensation was muffled, almost pleasant. The stairs felt steeper than usual.
He leaned forward and used his hands to pull himself up the flights, both
steadying and hurrying, nearly falling up the steps. Rose’s sleepiness spell
was indeed immensely strong.
He almost forgot to collect his Duck after all—nearly threw himself
onto his bed fully clothed before remembering that final detail.
He fumbled in his open trunk, feeling more than looking. His

fingers clutched the soft rubber and he clutched it to his chest, giving the
Duck an accidental squeeze.
“Daft Dew-beater!”
James half-fell, half-crawled up onto his bed, his head swimming
amiably, already dipping into a dreaming fugue.
His last incoherent thought was that the Duck in his hand was a
Quaffle. He was flying over the nighttime pitch, preparing to score, but the
goal rings were no longer guarded by Lily. Now, strangely, they were
protected by the figure of Donofrio Odin-Vann, who opened his arms to
block the shot. As he did, his cloak spread wide like dragon wings,
seamlessly black, covering everything, covering the entire world.
James fell into the blackness, still clutching the Quaffle-Duck to his
chest, and the blackness sucked him in. It streamed past him first like a
wind, and then like a hurricane gale, and finally like smothering water,
compressed and swift, carrying him helplessly faster and faster, breaking
through the fog of Rose’s sleep charm with a stab of sudden fear.
Fighting against the rushing dark, he finally broke through, gasped
urgently, and sat up.
He was no longer in his bed in Gryffindor Tower. Instead, he was
sitting on a cushion of fresh grass beneath a dusky evening sky. A huge
shape hulked next to him. James blinked up at it, still muddy-headed,
knowing that he should recognize the shape but not quite able to do so. It
wasn’t until the voice spoke up next to him, startling him badly, that it all
began to make sense.
“Sheesh, James!” Zane’s voice rasped, full of shocked urgency.
“Are you all right? Did that, like, hurt?”
“What do you mean?” James asked, clutching his head as if to hold
it together. He turned to see Zane drop into an urgent squat next to him.
Peering past the blonde boy, he asked, “Is that Apollo Mansion?”
“The very same,” Zane answered distractedly, leaning to examine
James. “Seriously, you’re okay? You fell out of nowhere like a comet, hit
the ground hard enough to rattle the windows!”
James’ head was clearing slowly. With Zane’s help he climbed
unsteadily to his feet. “I’m fine. I guess. Really good to see you, mate.
Am I really here? Alma Aleron?”
Zane shrugged. “As here as I am, looks to me. I think you dropped
your Duck, though.”

James glanced around and saw the rubber Duck lying a few feet
away in the grass. He retrieved it and pushed it into his pocket. Taking a
moment to look around, he finally recognized the bulk of Apollo mansion,
home to Bigfoot house. It still sat atop Victory Hill overlooking the
quadrangle and the enormous brick shape of Administration Hall, with its
imposing clock tower. According to it, local time was just past six in the
evening. The only major difference to the scene since James had last been
there was the lack of the broken werewolf statue, which had long since been
cleared away now that the Wolves’ reign of unnatural Clutchcudgel
tournament wins had been ended.
Returning to Zane, James said blearily, “It’s good to be back, even if
it’s only for a little while. But how is this supposed to happen? We can’t
just open the Nexus Curtain like we did last time, can we? The house has to
be empty, for one thing.”
Zane managed to look mildly wounded. “Like I can’t manage the
simple task of clearing a house for an evening? I just told them the place
had come down with a sudden infestation of Streeler snails.” He bobbed
his head and glanced back at the plain, blocky façade of Apollo mansion.
“Mainly because I infested it with Streeler snails,” he added with a shrug.
“But it wasn’t hard to get everybody out. Tonight’s the first Clutch match
between The Bigfoots and the Vampires. The snails were just insurance.
I’m supposed to be clearing them out while everyone’s away. No problem.
The Nexus Curtain works as a portal for every living thing from the
cornerstone up. I hope those slimy, venomous little brutes are happy in
their new home in the Double-you Bee Double-you.” He looked a little
wistful.
James nodded. “So you have the horseshoe, then?” The silver
horseshoe, James well knew, was the key that opened the dimensional gate,
converting the entire house into a portal.
Zane nodded and patted the bulge in his jeans pocket. “I probably
shouldn’t carry it around like this, should I?” he said in a hoarse whisper.
“Who knows what kind of trans-dimensional radiation the thing gives off,
eh? Ah well, it’ll either make it impossible for me to have kids, or make
them super-powered mutants if I do. I should start thinking up possible
superhero names.”
“How did you come by it, anyway?” James asked, looking down at
the darkly glimmering silvery shape. “That thing’s got to be under a

thousand spells of protection these days, doesn’t it?”
Zane shrugged. “Got it from the same place we got it the first time
we went through the nexus curtain. Remember that? Petra had it. Pulled it
right out of her pocket. Normally, this thing lives under twenty-four-hour
protection up in the Tower of Art. But Petra, you know,” he shrugged in
grave wonderment. “How does she do any of the things she does?”
“Where is she,” James asked, glancing around. “Or Odin-Vann.
Have you met him already? Tall, skinny bloke with a little pointy goatee?”
“Petra’s inside,” Zane nodded at the mansion again. “Along with
Izzy. They have to stay totally out of sight until the last moment. That
other dude is in there, too.”
“Izzy’s here?” James blinked. He knew he should have expected
that. Petra rarely went anywhere without her half-sister, whom she
protected intently.
Zane nodded. “They were talking about what will become of her
once Petra zaps away into Morgan’s dimension. I think that Odin-Vann guy
means to take care of her. Adopt her, maybe.”
James’ head spun for a moment. He couldn’t quite bring himself to
imagine Petra abandoning Izzy, but of course it would be impossible to do
otherwise. The Izzy in that other dimension, unfortunately, was dead.
At that moment, the door to Apollo mansion opened. Donofrio
Odin-Vann stepped out, followed by a thin, young woman in jeans and a
pale green jumper, her glossy dark hair pulled back in a ponytail.
At the sight of her, all the breath seemed to suck out of James’
lungs. The color faded from everything in the world except for the young
woman as she came lightly down the steps, meeting his eyes, smiling at
him, faintly, but with genuine affection.
She approached him, reached for him, touched his shoulders. And
then they were embracing. It was a brief reunion, but monumental in
James’ mind. He had not touched Petra in years. Had only seen her once,
briefly, on the night that she had created her Horcrux. In his heart, she had
become something almost mythical—a towering icon of both hopeless love
and impending tragedy. And yet now, finally, here she stood before him, in
his arms, half-a-head shorter than him. Her hair smelled of lavender. The
embrace of her arms was strong, warm, utterly human.
And then she was letting him go, stepping back, looking up at him.
“I’m sorry,” she said.

He shook his head at her, speechless. Was she sorry for the way she
had recently blocked him out, closing off her end of the their shared
thread? Or for including him on this possibly dangerous mission? James
couldn’t tell. Possibly both. Or perhaps she was sorry for something else
entirely.
“You should go now,” Odin-Vann said. “We have very little time.”
James frowned, finally tearing his gaze away from Petra. “You
mean… you aren’t coming?”
Odin-Vann nodded and drew a brief, heavy sigh. “I would be of
little help where you are going. My mission is to stay here. I will keep Izzy
safe, and watch the house. Should anyone approach while you are in the
World Between the Worlds, I will need to remove the horseshoe key. I will
send them on their way by whatever means necessary and replace it once
the coast is clear.”
There was something off-kilter about the way Odin-Vann spoke and
avoided eye-contact, but James couldn’t quite identify what it was.
“Where will Izzy be?” Zane asked, drawing his wand out of his
pocket.
Petra answered, “She’s in the basement game room. The cellar isn’t
part of the portal. She’ll be safe there with the Disarmadillo and Don just
outside. And she has her doll with her, Betsy.”
James nodded hesitantly. It was strange hearing the professor
referred to as Don, but he supposed that’s what all of his old friends and
classmates called him.
Zane tugged the horseshoe from his other jeans pocket and handed it
to Odin-Vann, who accepted it reverently. He turned toward the
cornerstone and the engraved shape that, James knew, fit the horseshoe
perfectly. The young professor glanced back over his shoulder.
“You have your means of communicating with Ms. Weasley?” he
asked James.
James nodded, patting the Duck stuffed into his pocket.
“You both have a very important duty,” Odin-Vann said, looking at
James and Zane meaningfully. “A grave duty more important than any
other task on earth at this moment. Do you both know the true source of
Petra’s powers?”
James did know, but hadn’t realized that Odin-Vann did. He
nodded, a bit uncertainly.

Odin-Vann went on, more intently than James had ever heard him
speak. “Petra is a sorceress. There may be none like her in all of history.
Sorcery power is derived from a natural element. Petra’s is the first of her
kind: her element is the city. Where you are going, I need not remind you:
there are no cities. There never have been, and there never shall be. While
she is there, she will be at her weakest, drawing on her stored power alone,
like a Muggle battery. You two are to be her protection. You are wizards.
You take your power with you. Use it well. Find and collect the symbolic
crimson thread. And bring it and her back here safe. Do you understand?”
“They understand, Don,” Petra said. She placed an arm each around
Zane’s and James’ waists, squeezing them both. “These two shall be my
knights in shining armour, at least for the next hour. Open the portal
already. As you say, time is short.”
Odin-Vann still glared at Zane and James, turning the silver
horseshoe over and over in his hands. James had time to wonder: if the task
of protecting Petra was so important, why was the professor not attending to
it himself? He remembered his suspicions about the professor, about how
he seemed to be magically stymied when under stress. It was almost as if
pressure flustered him into impotence, turned him into a temporary squib.
Was that why he was choosing not go himself, remaining to perform the
much more menial duty of guarding the house?
Finally, Odin-Vann turned away and approached the huge conjoined
cornerstone of Apollo mansion.
Petra stepped toward the door again, bringing Zane and James with
her.
“I’m sorry,” she said again, glancing aside at both boys, first Zane,
and then James. But then she smiled and added, “But it really is good to be
together with you two rogues again. Tell Ralph I’m disappointed he isn’t
here as well. And Rose, too.”
James nodded that he would.
A moment later, a blast of warm light exploded from Apollo
mansion, silent but blinding, piercing from every window, keyhole, and
door crack, even from the throat of the chimney.
Petra stiffened, drew herself up, and then gripped James’ and Zane’s
hands on either side, squeezing. Together, the three stepped forward.
The door to Apollo mansion opened of its own accord, spilling a
brilliance of colors, all fused into something rosy-golden, exerting subtle

force against their bodies while simultaneously drawing them forward.
As one, they held their breath, stepped over the threshold, and
vanished from the world they knew.

8. THE THREAD AND THE BROOCH
Absolutely nothing had changed since James had last set foot in the
World Between the Worlds. He sensed it not just by looking around, but
with something deeper and more pervasive inside his own heart and mind.
He remembered someone commenting on it during their previous visit: time
doesn’t take any time here, they had said.
He hoped it hadn’t been Lucy who’d said it. The thought of her
made his heart as heavy and cold as stone.
Silently, James led the way out of the cave of the portal and up the
curving stairs carved into the bare rock of the plateau. Beneath them, irongrey waves crashed against the cliffs, sending up dull mists. They were the
exact same waves as before, since unseen by any other human eyes. The
wind was stiff but unscented by salt, strangely dead to the senses.
After a few minutes’ climb (although it might have been hours or
even days, considering the banal timelessness that gripped the terrible
place) the stone stairs curved up onto a broad plateau, carpeted with
hushing yellow grass. At the very end of the plateau jutted the black castle,
its spires and turrets scratching at the sky, its hollow windows tall and
staring like a hundred shocked eyes.
James took Petra’s hand with his left, holding his wand at the ready
in his right. In spite of everything, he exulted in her touch. It was fleeting,

and soon she would be gone from him forever, but for now he soaked in the
unspeakable comfort of their laced fingers, committing the feeling to
memory.
The three walked in silence for some time, approaching the castle.
Despite its looming turrets and dark stone walls, he felt no sense of
foreboding this time. Unlike their last approach, the castle was now
completely empty. Also, he now knew its story. The castle had been built
as an escape route by friends of a certain dimensional traveler and his
companion unicorn, both of whom had fallen prey to evil witches and
wizards in the world of men. It was that unicorn’s horseshoe, long parted
from its bones, that had made this journey possible. The castle was a sort of
way-station, filled with portals magically powered to take any travelers
back to their native dimension. This, the builders wordlessly implied, was
preferable to the risk of interaction with those that had killed the Rider and
his Mount.
“That sky,” Zane finally said, keeping his voice low in the endless,
half-daylight. “Looks like a giant bowl beaten out of lead, turned upside
down over the world.”
“There are no stars in that sky,” Petra agreed with a shudder. “It
never gets dark. There’s never a dusk or a dawn. It just never ends.” She
squeezed James’ hand. “Let’s hurry and get this over with.”
The castle drew closer with teasing slowness. Wind whispered in
the grass, and the sound almost teased at meaning. James found himself
straining to hear words among the shushing hiss. He shivered and shook
his head.
“Are you certain about all of this?” he asked Petra, half to distract
himself, half because he really wanted to know. “I mean, are you absolutely
positive there’s no other way?”
Petra drew a long, silent breath. Letting it out, she said, “There’s no
other way. I wish there was. Donofrio and I have discussed it over and
over. I’m the Crimson Thread. I’ll need his expertise to assume the role of
Morgan, that other dimension's version of myself. But once we're done,
everything will finally return to normal. As long as I am in our own world,
I tear it further away from its original destiny. Chaos takes more of a
foothold. Who knows how many things are different now already than they
should be?”
James shrugged and shook his head. “So there’s a few Muggles

stumbling into the courtyard of Hogwarts, is that such a big thing?” He
knew he was oversimplifying things, but went on anyway. “Maybe the
world really would be better off if the Muggles found out about us. Have
you thought about that?”
She glanced aside at him, gave him a wry smile. “I’ve thought
about it. And you have, too. You know how that ends. Conflict and war
are inevitable in a combined world. But I’m talking about more than that.
Maybe, in an untouched and untainted world, you won the Clutchcudgel
tournament for the Bigfoots just because it was the right thing to do for the
team, for pure fun, and sport, and honor, not because you had to for my
sake.”
Zane scoffed. “And maybe Professor Newt teaches cheesecakes to
fly and it rains chocolate syrup on Thursdays.”
Petra laughed a little. “And maybe James’ Aunt Hermione is the
new Minister of Magic.”
James tried to laugh along, but another thought struck him, and he
couldn’t stop himself from saying it aloud. “Maybe my cousin Lucy never
died here in this stupid, dead place.”
Petra and Zane fell silent as they walked. Next to James, he sensed
Petra nod slowly.
They spoke no more as they finally walked into the dull shadow of
the castle. As before, it stood perched over the very edge of the far
precipice, either because the cliff had eroded disastrously away beneath it,
or because the structure did not rely on anything so prosaic as gravity for its
foundation. Looking up at it, James saw the building now for what it really
was: merely a totem, a monument meant to funnel wanderers into the main
chamber, a cavernous hall surrounded by pillars and lined with empty
archways. Each archway was hung with wafting curtains, and James knew
that each formed its own dimensional portal.
As the three stepped into the space, their footsteps echoing up into
shadowy, vaulted heights, they encountered the same scene that they had
left years (or seemingly only moments) before. A broad stone floor was
drifted here and there with dead grass, occupied in its very centre by an
unmistakable, if surreal, arrangement of bedroom furniture. There was a
low dresser and mirror, a bed, a chair, a woven Oriental rug. A floor lamp
with a pink tulip-shaped shade lay broken on the floor. James remembered
it falling as Petra had stalked through the arrangement, pushing the

furniture aside without touching it, fueled by rage in pursuit of Judith and
Morgan.
The symbolic crimson thread, plucked from the Loom of the Vault
of Destinies, had accompanied Morgan here, waiting with her, twined
around an opal brooch.
James remembered Petra’s version of that same brooch. She had
worn it on her cloak during their ocean voyage, apparently a gift from her
dead father, purchased while she had still been in her mother’s womb. Petra
had lost her version of the brooch when she’d fallen from the back of the
ship—and been so heartsick about it that she had nearly followed it to her
own watery tomb.
Morgan, the Petra from another reality, had never gone on that
ocean voyage, however. Her dimension’s version of the brooch had never
been lost at sea. Instead, it rested on this very dresser, glinting with the red
of the strand wrapped around it.
James could tell even before they reached the disarray of the
furniture, however, that the top of the dresser was now empty. Not even
dust had collected on its flat surface.
Petra stopped in her tracks.
“Where is it?” she whispered urgently.
“I remember it,” Zane said, stepping forward, and then glancing
back. “The thread was here, wrapped around a piece of jewelry. It must
have fallen.”
James mused darkly, “Maybe Judith came back for it.”
But Petra was shaking her head. “No one can touch the thread
except she who it represents. Remember?”
James remembered. He had tried to collect the brooch and thread
himself, only to have his hand frozen solid all the way to the elbow.
“Look around,” Zane suggested. “Split up. Check every corner.”
Slowly, the three began to circle the arrangement of scattered
furniture, expanding in wider and wider arcs. James bent at the waist, his
eyes wide, scanning the blocks of the stone floor, scrutinizing every
crevice. Soon enough, he found himself moving around the portal arches
and their drifting curtains. He realized that each portal emitted a faint
noise: a low ribbon of whisper-song, like that which he’d fancied hearing in
the grass of the plateau.
He kept a distance from them while examining around them as close

as possible. Was it possible that the brooch and thread had rolled through
one of the portals? Surely, the dimensional gateways only worked on living
things, didn’t they?
Still bent at the waist, studying the cracks of the floor, he nearly
bumped right into Zane.
“It’s not looking good,” the blond boy whispered. “Something or
someone must have gotten here before us.”
James didn’t want to admit that his friend might be right. In the pit
of his stomach, however, he had the faintest, teasing sense of another
presence in the castle. Not Judith this time, but a deepening sense of being
observed. He glanced around helplessly.
Petra’s voice rang from across the room, waking a stir of echoes in
the high ceilings. “Found it!” she cried happily. “It was right here all
along! It fell into one of the partially open dresser drawers and—”
The stone floor suddenly shook, so hard and violently that it kicked
both Zane and James right off their feet. They fell backwards onto the
stone blocks, which cracked all around them. Deep crevices appeared and
snaked away in every direction, bursting with sharp grit. The entire castle
seemed to sway at the ferocity of the quake. Deep, startled groans and
creaks filled the room as dust sifted down, clouding the dark air.
“Petra Morganstern,” a massive, booming voice announced,
echoing so broadly that it vibrated in every surface.
James recognized the voice, and his stomach seemed to plummet all
the way through the floor.
Light blared, illuminating the cavernous room like a flash of purple
lightning, etching perfectly black shadows behind every pillar and archway,
turning every spreading crack into a chasm.
Zane grabbed James’ arm, clutching tight.
“It’s Merlin!” he said, his voice thin in the disastrous noise.
In the centre of the floor, a figure stood tall, holding a staff aloft in
its right hand. The staff burned with purple fire, roaring dully and emitting
that blinding, cold glow. Beyond it, turning to face the sudden shape, Petra
squared her shoulders, closing her fist over the brooch and thread in her
right hand.
“Headmaster,” she said calmly, and her own voice reverberated
throughout the room, though clear as crystal bells. “You shouldn’t have
come. I don’t want to end you.”

“Nor I you,” Merlin declared with sincere regret. “I was summoned
the moment you touched the thread, as rite of my guardianship of both you
and our world. Give the thread to me. Return with me as your ally, not
your warden.”
Petra was shaking her head. “You can’t hold the thread. Only I
can. Because I now belong to the world and the dimension that it came
from. Please, don’t oppose me.”
James still had his wand in his hand. He aimed it at Merlin’s broad
back, not even sure what spell he meant to cast. Zane grabbed his wrist and
pushed it upright, however.
“What are you doing?” he rasped in James’ ear. “We can’t fight
Merlin! We brought knives to a gun fight!”
“Let me go!” James insisted, struggling, but it was too late. A
shockwave of magical energy bowled both boys backwards, emanating
from the point where Merlin’s and Petra’s powers suddenly collided. James
struggled against the force of it, but it was a constant blast, streaming
through his hair and battering at his clothing. He pushed laboriously to his
feet against the howling gust and strained his eyes, desperate to see. Even as
he did so, however, a wave of debilitating, inexplicable weakness washed
over him. The world turned grey and he felt himself swaying, as if some
secret force were sucking his energy away. Zane grabbed him, holding him
upright as James’ knees went loose beneath him.
Across from them, Petra and Merlin were locked in sudden battle,
she with her right arm outstretched, palm open, he with his staff extended
fell length. Connecting between them, dual bolts of blinding energy
converged and obliterated each other, creating the constant magical gale.
Petra’s power was palest blue, blasting like shards of ice. Merlin’s was
electric purple, crackling with forks of lightning.
At the point where both bolts collided, terminating each other in
apocalyptic annihilation, a tiny shape floated, revolving slowly in midair. It
was the brooch with the thread twined tightly around it. As James watched,
weakened and dreamy, the shape twitched, first jerking back toward Petra,
and then lobbing again toward Merlin, locked in shifting stalemate.
They were fighting over it, engaged in a devastating tug-of-war.
James had a moment to marvel: if this is how powerful Petra and Merlin
were when separated from their elements—her from the city, and him from
nature—then James and Zane were very fortunate indeed. They surely

could not have survived otherwise.
And yet James himself felt strangely wasted, like a husk, drained
and withering. He drew a gasping breath, willing himself back into
motion. Clumsily, he broke free of Zane and trained his wand on Merlin
again, hoping that he could distract him, if nothing else. He chose a
disarming spell, spoke it as loud as he could, but the wand in his hand
didn’t so much as spark.
“It’s no good!” Zane called against the torrent of magic and the
quake of the castle. “They’re drawing their power from every source,
including our wands! There’s nothing left for us!”
They’re not just draining power from our wands, James thought.
She, at least, is draining it from me. From the invisible cord that connects
us. I’m her battery!
“GO!” Petra’s voice suddenly blared, so loud and ringing that it
shivered the air, setting up harmonics of reverberation in the very stones
and blocks of the castle.
“She means us!” Zane cried, grabbing again at James’ arm. “The
whole place is coming down!”
James felt it now. The floor was canting disastrously, tilting further
at every moment. The pillars creaked and leaned, beginning to topple as if
in slow motion. And still James couldn’t break his eyes away from Petra.
“We have to save her!” he shouted, and bolted forward, mustering
every ounce of strength he could. He didn’t know what he meant to do.
Perhaps he would merely bowl into Merlin from behind, knocking the big
man over. He knew he had about as much chance at that as he did of lifting
Hogwarts castle with his pinkie finger, and yet he couldn’t stop himself.
This is exactly how Lucy died, he realized as he ran. The thought
was strangely comforting.
He was still ten paces away when it happened.
The brooch, still locked in the conflagration between Petra’s and
Merlin’s bolts, began to revolve faster. As it did, the thread unwound from
it. It streamed along Petra’s icy stream, stretching toward her, while the
brooch spun into a blur, drifting back along Merlin’s purple bolt, drawn
toward his power.
The two parts separated with an explosive blast that extinguished
both bolts. The thread flung into Petra’s open hand while the brooch
streaked toward Merlin. And then both figures were obscured by a

thunderclap of rebounding energy.
James flew off his feet and rolled, banging his elbows and knees
painfully along the broken floor. A moment later, his face was full of dry
grass. He scrambled, not even certain which way was up, and lunged
clumsily to his feet on the edge of the plateau, in the shadow of the leaning
castle.
His strength had returned to him, but he barely noticed. The noise
of the blast had not diminished. It grew, and James realized why. Slowly,
disastrously, the castle was toppling over the cliff. It’s black turrets and
spires still towered above him, but seemed to lean slowly backwards,
crumbling into a gentle blur as every brick began to separate, every window
dissolved out of true, every cone of its roof began to implode in on itself.
Zane’s voice was a thin wail against the roar. “James!” he called,
scrambling out of the collapsing ruin and waving both hands frantically.
“Run! Run!”
“Petra!” James shouted, convulsively stumbling into the descending
shadow.
But then there she was. Pillars collapsed and shattered behind her as
she pelted forward, her face smudged with grime, her jeans torn, showing
the bloody scrapes of her pumping knees.
James reached for her, grabbed her hand as she lost her balance and
began to fall. He tugged her forward, even as the castle utterly gave way
behind her, contracting in on itself and descending beyond the plateau like a
vertical freight train, taking much of the cliff with it.
“Go!” Petra panted as James pulled her onward, onto the hissing
grass. “It’s not over! He’s still coming! GO!”
She struggled to regain her footing and pelted onward, now pulling
James along beside her.
Behind them, an explosion of dull grey water, as high and broad as a
mountain, roared into the air, blotting out the dull sky and casting gloom
over the plateau.
Zane was running ahead of James and Petra, but glanced back over
his shoulder at the noise and the sudden shadow. He stumbled, wide-eyed,
and Petra caught his collar with her free hand dragging him forward as well.
Lightning shot prisms from the wall of water, which fell away in
torrents now, revealing a bright nucleus beyond. James didn’t have to ask
what that nucleus was. The shape descended out of the air and set foot on

the rubble of the castle’s former footprint, shaking the entire plateau.
“PETRA MORGANSTERN!” Merlin called in a voice of thunder.
“Run!” Petra panted thinly, breathlessly. “Run!”
The three ran. They ran like they had never run in their entire lives.
They reached the stone stairway and nearly flung themselves over
the ledge in their panic. Turning and taking two, even three, steps at a time,
they bolted down, following the curve of the cliffs and descending toward
the crashing waves below.
Merlin was coming. The plateau shook with the tremor of his
footsteps. The light of his staff bloomed back from the low sky, throwing
hard, moving shadows into every crack and fissure. Merlin, somehow, was
his own battery. And his power, even if only temporary, was still terrible.
Finally, exhausted and panicked, the three stumbled into the cave of
the portal.
Only the portal, they now saw as they skidded to a horrified halt,
wasn’t there.
James’ eyes boggled in the dimness. He knew what they should
have found: the door of Apollo mansion, seen from the inside, hanging
open and showing the comforting slope of victory hill and the quadrangle
beyond. But there was no open door, no comforting evening light. No
escape.
The ground shook. The angle of the purplish light outside changed
now, reflecting directly down onto the crashing, heaving waves. Merlin had
reached the stairs.
“Where’s the door?” Zane cried, his voice an octave higher than
normal. He stumbled forward and felt around blindly, waving his arms. “It
should be here! This is the spot! Our footprints are still right there from
when we arrived! Door, please! Pretty please, with sugar on top!”
A high-pitched, muffled voice suddenly squawked from James’
right side.
“Farty Fopdoodle!”
It was the Duck in his pocket, of course. Frantically, he tugged it
out and looked down at it. A single word was now scrawled on it in all
capitals: MERLIN!
“Great,” James nodded, stuffing the Duck back into his pocket.
“Real helpful, Rose.”
“He’s had to remove the horseshoe,” Petra said quietly, her eyes

thoughtful. “Don had to close the portal for a moment. Someone must
have come. He’ll put it back. We just have to wait.”
“I don’t think waiting is going to be an option for much longer!”
Zane exclaimed with manic cheerfulness.
“Come here,” Petra said, reaching out to Zane with her right hand
and taking James’ in her left. “We have to be ready.”
Zane came to stand next to Petra, but kept his face to the entrance of
the cave. Trembling, he stretched out his wand.
“What’s the best spell to use on a sorcerer?” he asked, his voice
cracking glassily.
Petra considered this for a moment as the ground shook. “What’s
the worst spell you know?”
“Umm…!” Zane blinked.
Petra nodded briskly. “Not that one.”
A shadow moved outside the mouth of the cave. Pebbles and grit
rained from the ceiling.
In the darkness of the cave, the door of Apollo mansion appeared,
blooming with evening glow.
“Now!” James shouted, yanking Petra forward as he lunged. She
dragged Zane behind her, even as a shape heaved in front of the cave
mouth, blocking the light.
James’ next footstep stumbled onto the porch steps of Apollo
mansion. The door slammed behind him as Zane barreled through, nearly
bowling him over.
“The horseshoe!” James cried, his breath nearly gone, barely
producing a dry croak. “Take it out! Take it out!”
Standing next to the cornerstone, blinking in surprise with his hands
still on the silvery shape, Donofrio Odin-Vann plucked the horseshoe from
its engraved bed.
The brilliant rose-gold lights in Apollo mansion winked out.
The portal was closed.
James collapsed past Petra, down the steps and onto the lush grass
of Victory Hill. Zane followed, panting and nearly laughing with hysterical
relief.
“Someone came back for a scarf!” Odin-Vann breathed, rushing to
meet them, the horseshoe in his hand. “Somebody named Perkins! I told
him he couldn’t go in yet because of the poison snails. He argued with me!

Said that if that crazy zombie Zane Walker could handle them, so could he!
I had to let him in! I put the key back in place as soon as I could!”
Wordlessly, James held up the rubber Duck in his hand, showing
Odin-Vann the word scrawled across it in Rose’s hasty capitals. The
professor’s face went slack and ashy with shock. After a second, his eyes
darted from the Duck, to James, to Petra.
“Did you get it?” he asked, his voice a breathy husk.
Zane nodded wearily, still tittering with nervous laughter. “We
succeeded. It was close, but we succeeded.”
James looked up at where Petra still stood on the steps. The knees
of her jeans hung in frayed strips, stained with her blood. Her hair was wild
and matted with dust, clinging to her sweaty cheeks and hiding her eyes.
She raised a hand and showed her open palm. In it, looking like nothing
more than a ball of red lint, was the crimson thread.
“We got the thread,” she said, her voice a low, hollow monotone.
“But we didn’t succeed.”
And suddenly James understood what she meant.
Petra may have told everyone, even Odin-Vann, that their mission
was to retrieve the crimson thread. But Petra herself had gone to the World
Between the Worlds for her own reason, a reason she may have cared about
even more.
She had gone to replace her father’s lost brooch.
And in that task, sadly, she had failed miserably.

9. PEEVES PLAYS HIS PART
James slept long and late the following morning, awaking well past
Saturday breakfast to an empty dormitory and feeling little inclined to get
up. The leaden grey sky outside his window concurred with his lethargic
mood. He stared at it from the rumpled mess of his bed, replaying the
night’s events. The grit of the destroyed black castle was still in his hair.
Its dirt was grimed into the palms of his hands and beneath his fingernails.
He was still wearing the jeans and tee shirt he had worn to greet Zane at
Alma Aleron, only now they were sweaty and grass-stained.
He longed to spend an hour or three soaking in the fifth floor
prefects’ bathtub, and considered asking Ralph for the password. This, of
course, would likely necessitate an explanation for why he was so grimy
after a night’s sleep, and while he did intend to tell Ralph everything that
had happened, he didn’t feel up to it just this morning.
Thus, instead, he merely lay in bed blinking at the autumn clouds as
they rolled dully past his window, grumbling with distant threats of rain.
He’d assumed that his dream-journey would end once he, Petra, and
Zane returned from the World Between the Worlds, but in fact he had spent
another hour or more there with them, in the basement game room of
Apollo mansion, explaining their adventure to Donofrio Odin-Vann and
discussing what still remained to accomplish.

Petra was morose and quiet throughout, seated next to James on a
low, sprung couch with her feet splayed in front of her, her shoes kicked
off. Izzy seemed to sense Petra’s mood, and joined her, lying her own
smaller body on the arm of the sofa beside her sister, crossing her arms over
her chest, mimicking Petra’s pose perfectly.
Odin-Vann was ashen-faced at the idea that Merlin had somehow
discovered the plan, and had somehow been summoned to confront the
three of them.
“Not us,” Zane shook his head. “Petra. She said it herself. The
only person who can touch the thread is the person who it represents. I
expect that means even old Merlin Magic-pants.” He tried to give the
nickname his usual familiar irreverence, but even he was still shaken by the
memory of Merlin’s terrible pursuit. “Maybe he has his own way of getting
into the Double-you Bee Double-you.”
Odin-Vann shook his head doubtfully. “I would say that absolutely
no one can access the World Between the Worlds without the dimensional
key,” he said. “But this is the great Merlinus we are talking about, he who
spent centuries suspended in the Transitis Nihilo, who traveled beyond
death for a year only to return at his own strange bidding. Even if he
couldn’t cross the Nexus on his own, he may well have been capable of
establishing a sort of beacon to summon him should Petra ever touch the
thread.” He shivered at the very thought.
“But if that’s the case,” James realized, sitting up in alarm, “then
that means we trapped him in the World Between the Worlds when we left
without him!”
This time it was Zane who shook his head. “The black castle was
full of portals,” he said, standing and heaving open a nearby refrigerator.
Bottles rattled in the door and he plucked one out, popping its top with a
brief hiss. “Remember? They were escape routes for anyone who found
themselves stuck there, taking them back to their own dimension. The
castle may have ended up a ruin at the bottom of that dead ocean, but the
portals are still there, and I bet they work just fine. Merlin will find his way
back, somewhere and somehow, but drummels to donuts he’ll be as wet as a
drowned Glumbumble when he does.”
“And as angry as a fire-demon,” James sighed.
“He didn’t see you,” Petra said dully. “All of his attention was
focused on me. I made sure of that. He will be in a rage, but that rage will

belong to me alone.”
James glanced at her. There was rage in her voice as well, albeit
cold, banked to a deep-freeze of deceptive calm. She had run from Merlin,
escaped from him, but only barely. How could that be? Shouldn’t the two
of them have been very nearly matched there in the World Between the
Worlds, each separated from their elemental powers? Was her strength
divided, somehow? Had she spent a portion of it hiding Zane and James
from Merlin, protecting them? Or was there something more to her
seemingly reduced power?
He thought of the weakness he’d felt when she had summoned her
powers in force. He thought, I’m her battery.
“Right,” Odin-Vann nodded curtly. “The point is, we’ve succeeded
in collecting the crimson thread. All that remains now is to replace it in the
Loom of the Vault of Destinies. This shall be my challenge, as it may well
require some spell or enchantment to power it back up again, sending it
back to its native dimension and returning us our original destiny.”
Zane shrugged. “Or maybe just getting the thread back in the same
place as the Loom will cause it to magically snap back into place, like a
stretched rubber band being let go, or two magnets getting close enough to
get caught in their own attraction, snapping together. Professor Jackson
said something like that, back when the thread was first stolen. The
destinies want to realign, he said.”
Odin-Vann frowned at Zane. “Your professor Jackson spends too
much time toying with theory and too little time in actual magical practice.
He thinks he knows much more than he does, which is precisely why he
must not be involved in this mission at all, or know anything about it.
When the time comes, Mr. Walker, I will summon you to assist me in
returning the thread to the Vault of Destinies. I understand that you are wily
enough to procure a key to the Alma Aleron archive, where it is housed?”
Zane shrugged. “I’m wily enough to get you a live orchestra to play
The Blue Danube while you do it, if you want. You just say when.”
Odin-Vann agreed with a nod. “Once I am prepared, I shall indeed
say when. If all goes as planned, the moment the thread is returned, Petra
shall assume her new role as the Morgan of that alternate dimension. The
original Morgan of that dimension, now dead and buried here, will become
our version of Petra.”
Still lying on the sofa arm next to Petra, Izzy rolled onto her side

and buried her face against Petra’s shoulder. She wasn’t crying, James
sensed—she had surely already shed more than her share of tears over the
impending loss of her sister—but neither was she ready to allow it to
happen just yet. Probably, she never would be.
James found he was shaking his head, finally hitting on an objection
that had been brewing in the back of his mind for some time. “But it can’t
be that simple, can it?” He turned to look aside at Petra. “That other
dimension’s version of you, the Morgan version, was evil. She partnered
with Judith to steal Izzy from you, since she accidentally killed her own
dimension’s version. She was willing to see my dad and Titus Hardcastle
killed by the W.U.L.F.”
“She wasn’t evil,” Odin-Vann corrected with grave certainty.
“Morgan wasn’t evil any more than Petra is, regardless of what the rest of
the magical world may think. She was simply heartsick by the
consequences of her choices. People will do surprisingly desperate things
when they are heartsick. Morgan wasn’t evil. She was simply broken, and
crushed, and bereft.”
“And when I go to replace her in her world,” Petra said, still staring
blankly into the shadows. “I will be broken and crushed and bereft as well.
I will be more Morgan than Petra myself. I’ll have lost the people I love the
most. It will be exactly as it should be.”
The chill in her words was terrible to James. She sensed this.
Without looking at him, she felt for his hand between them, squeezed it, and
held it.
You’re one of those people, the touch of her hand seemed to say. He
didn’t know if the thought came directly from her, via the invisible cord that
connected them, but he didn’t doubt the sentiment, either way. He squeezed
her hand back and drew a deep, shaking sigh.
Odin-Vann suggested that he be the one to safeguard the crimson
thread until the time of its final use. “For the very reason it was hidden in
the World Between the Worlds by Morgan: because it is far too magical to
go unnoticed. Despite recent events, Hogwarts is still one of the most
magically fortified places on earth. There, I can keep it hidden.”
“Just like Madame Delacroix did with the Merlin throne,” Zane
nodded and shrugged, “back during our first year, when we were all still
just wide-eyed innocents, untainted by the tribulations of responsibility.”
Petra rolled her eyes at Zane, but there was a ghost of a smile there

as well.
Odin-Vann held out a small leather-bound jewelry box, open like a
clamshell. Petra stood and placed the crimson thread in the box, which
Odin-Vann snapped closed, never touching the thread himself. James had
an idea that the professor wouldn’t have been able to hold the thread even
inside the jewelry box if Petra had not placed it there with her own hand,
granting her unspoken permission.
James also had an idea that Ralph, were he there, would object
strongly to Odin-Vann’s possession of the thread.
“And this,” Odin-Vann said, tugging the unicorn horseshoe from his
pocket and handing it to Petra, “I assume you can return to its rightful place
of protection?”
Petra accepted it with a weary nod. “The curators of the Tower of
Art will never know it was gone.”
Shortly, James felt the pull of the collapsing dream-visit. The walls
of the game room darkened. Voices became insubstantial, like noises heard
underwater. And then, for a long time, there was only darkness. He
returned to his bed via the dark, much more quietly and subtly than he had
left.
James spent most of that Saturday midday listlessly haunting the
common room, making half-hearted attempts at his Herbology reading
assignment and other homework. He had just begun an essay on the
seventeen-point mental checklist required before Disapparation (he had
only recently begun the class on the subject, but would not be making any
actual attempts for several weeks), when Rose came through the portrait
hole, followed by Scorpius.
Joining James at a corner table, she demanded explanations of
everything that had happened the previous night, and James, in turn, berated
her lateness in warning them of Merlin’s departure.
“Late nothing!” she hissed at him, leaning close, her eyes stern. “He
never left at all! At least, not in any way that the Map showed.”
James frowned. “But you sent the Duck warning. One magical
battle too late, of course, but you sent it. What do you mean he never left?”
Scorpius unslung his knapsack and pushed it across the table to
James. “The Map,” he gestured at it. “It’s there inside. It shows the
headmaster all right, just as expected. We followed his movements
precisely, all night, from right here in the common room. He started out in

the entrance hall. Then he went to the library.”
Rose nodded. “And then he went down to the laundry. We
wondered about that, but what do we know? Maybe he checks in on the
house elves every night. He’s the headmaster.”
“But then he went to the girl’s third floor bathroom,” Scorpius went
on, arching an eyebrow. “So we got a bit suspicious.”
Rose counted off on her fingers as she recited, “Then he went to the
Ravenclaw common room. Then a broom closet. The potions classroom.
An empty teacher’s lounge. The kitchens. A supply cupboard.”
“And then he spent some time at the top of the stairs just down the
hall,” Scorpius said, tilting his head. “So we poked out to see what he was
up to.”
James looked from Scorpius to Rose, baffled. “So? What was he
doing?”
“Who knows?” Rose said meaningfully. “All we found was Peeves
defacing a statue with a stolen lipstick. Peeves wearing Merlin’s black ring
on his finger!”
James blinked at his cousin for a moment, trying to absorb the
implication of this.
Rose grew impatient. “Merlin gave his beacon stone ring to Peeves
for ‘safe keeping’!” she made sarcastic air-quotes with her fingers. “We
tried to take it away from him, told him it was a powerful dark relic, but he
acted like we had insulted his dear beloved mum! Er, assuming poltergeists
have mums…” She frowned a little uncertainly.
“So Merlin tricked the Map into thinking Peeves was him,” James
finally understood with a thoughtful nod. “But how did Merlin know to do
that last night?”
“He didn’t!” Rose perked up again. “That’s just the thing! Peeves
told us Merlin entrusted him with the ring almost two years ago!”
James considered this for a moment and didn’t find it particularly
surprising. “Well, I did tell him about the Marauder’s Map. Blokes like
Merlin are keen on keeping an eye on everyone else, but not so keen on
having any eyes kept on him. But it’s not exactly safe to let Peeves run
around with the beacon stone, is it?”
Scorpius shrugged dismissively. “It’s probably the safest place of
all. Merlin’s about the only person Peeves is afraid of. Also, the little
imp’s too stupid and petty to understand the ring’s significance, and too

fanatically jealous of his ‘sworn duty’ to let anyone else so much as look
twice at it.”
Even Rose couldn’t argue with this logic.
Later that evening, James found Ralph in the library and attempted
to explain Odin-Vann’s “detentions”, and the events that had followed.
Ralph’s face was stoic as he listened, his arms folded across his big chest
and his eyes glaring pointedly at nothing in particular.
“So, Odin-Vann invites you, Zane, and Rose on some secret,
dangerous mission,” he finally said, still avoiding James’ eyes. “But leaves
me out of it completely. And you believe him when he says it has nothing
to do with the fact that I don’t trust him.”
James shrugged a little. “He said Rose and I were enough. And he
was right, more or less,” he admitted reluctantly. “Zane only came because
he was the one that emptied out Apollo Mansion. Other than that, we were
just there to protect Petra. Turns out we were about as helpful as a pair of
Flobberworms.”
“My wand’s a part of Merlin’s staff, if you remember,” Ralph said,
raising his chin and finally turning his gaze on James. “If I’d been there, I
might have been able to get Merlin’s attention with it, at least. Did you
think of that?”
James hadn’t. Before he could think of any response, however,
Ralph went on.
“You lot are keeping Merlin out of this, but I think that’s a huge
mistake. Everyone else might be mad with paranoia about Petra. Maybe
even your dad and the Auror department. But Merlin’s better than that. It’s
a mistake to keep him out. I think that’s why Odin-Vann didn’t include
me.”
James shook his head. “I really don’t think so, Ralph,” he said,
dropping his voice to a whisper. “I trust Merlin just as much as you do.
But he’s the head of the school, and that makes him part of the machine that
wants to catch and stop Petra. He may be Merlinus Ambrosius, but even he
has to obey the laws of the land now. Just like my dad. And besides,” he
added, trying not to be stung by Ralph’s words. “Odin-Vann wanted us to
tell you about it. He said it was best to keep you in the loop, just in case
Petra needed us again.”
This was a slight exaggeration of Odin-Vann’s words, James knew,
but he thought he could be forgiven for it. Ralph sighed and returned his

gaze to the far wall.
“I don’t trust him,” he muttered. “And more importantly, I don’t
like him. I don’t know what it is. But he’s wrong for you lot, and he’s
wrong for Petra.”
James leaned forward on the table dejectedly. “It won’t matter
much longer, it looks like,” he murmured glumly. “They’ll be returning the
crimson thread to the Loom soon. Petra will be gone from our world
forever. Odin-Vann may be dodgy and unpredictable, but when that
happens, he’ll just be a dodgy and unpredictable Charms teacher. Nothing
more.”
Ralph softened slightly. “So when’s that going to happen?”
James shook his head. “Dunno. Zane has to get them into the
Archive to do it, though. He’ll tell us via the Shard just as soon as OdinVann gets everything ready and sets the date.”
“Will we see Petra again before it happens?”
James considered this, and then shook his head again, slowly. “She
wanted me to tell you she missed seeing you, and Rose, too. I think that
was her way of saying goodbye. Probably to all of us.”
Ralph nodded sadly. There didn’t seem to be anything left to say on
the subject.
At another table across the library, Millie Vandergriff sat with a
group of other Hufflepuffs, their heads together and whispering animatedly.
Her profile was to him, and James considered it as he watched her. She was
pretty, he realized. More, he wanted to go to her. He wanted to sit down
with her and her friends, to lose himself in their conversation, and forget the
sad worries that hung over his head like storm clouds. Millie didn’t
command his heart like Petra did—he had no illusions about that—but
neither did she promise the inevitable heartbreak and regret that his love for
Petra demanded.
He wished Millie would look over at him, perhaps wave him over.
He would hold her hand under the table if she allowed him. Maybe later, he
would walk her to the Hufflepuff common room door, and she would kiss
him again.
Or maybe he would kiss her. And this time, he allowed himself to
muse, it would be full on the lips.
She did not look around at him, however. She was too engaged with
her friends, covering her laughter with one hand, pushing her blonde hair

back behind one ear, completely oblivious of James’ pensive, considering
gaze.
Soon enough, he got up, gathered his things, said goodnight to
Ralph, and left.
Graham was just posting the Quidditch roster on the notice board
near the portrait of the Fat Lady, surrounded by a group of curious
onlookers, when James approached. He almost asked Graham directly if
he’d made the team, but realized he didn’t want everyone to hear the
response, just in case the answer was no.
He shouldered toward the notice board and scanned the names, his
pulse suddenly thudding in his chest. When he reached the bottom of the
list, his heart plunged. His name wasn’t there.
But then he realized that he had skimmed the list too fast, scanning
it almost without reading, searching only for his own name.
It was there after all, but reversed, last name first, so that his eye had
initially skipped right over it.
POTTER, JAMES: SEEKER
James’ heart leapt upwards again, now trip-hammering. He felt
such a deep, sudden sense of elation that he swayed on his feet, nearly faint
with relief and surprise.
He had been waiting for this moment ever since his first year, and
had begun to suspect, deep down, that it would never—could never—
happen.
Only now did he realize just how much he needed this good news.
“Congratulations, James!” Lilly said, joining him and nearly
hopping with excitement. “Mum and Dad will be so proud! Both of us
playing for Gryffindor, me as Keeper and you as Seeker! We’re destined to
take home the trophy this year!”
James’ face split into a helpless grin. He nodded, then shook his
head in wonder, and then nodded again. Lily laughed and pulled him
toward the portrait hole.
“Come on!” she enthused. “Let’s get the whole team together and
start planning formations! Oh, this is going to be simply excellent!”
James was still speechless, but he agreed with a nod, allowing his
sister’s enthusiasm to drag him along, into the warmth and light of the

common room, where a round of spontaneous applause greeted him.
James’ face reddened, but he didn’t mind. He saw Deirdre and Graham
beaming at him, along with Xenia Prince, Marcus Cobb, Walter Stebbins,
and the rest of the Gryffindor team. James had gotten what he wanted after
all: something to distract him from the worries and sadness of the past
several hours.
As the team surrounded him, patting him on the back and ruffling
his hair, James thought: this might almost, possibly, be better even than
kissing Millie Vandergriff again.
But only almost.

The school year finally began to settle from the exciting
unpredictability of new classes and schedules to the familiar pattern of
assignments and homework, busy week-days and too-short weekends.
Autumn stole over the grounds like a thief, absconding with the hot
afternoons and leaving footprints of mist, even curling frost, on the
morning-bright windows. The Forbidden Forest began to replace its
seamless green with hues of coppery orange, neon yellow, and glossy
maroon. The wind became stiffer across the lake, which shivered into
choppy waves, as if applauding the oncoming change of seasons.
For James, as the days turned into weeks, there was no more word
from Petra, nor any night-time treks to see her via the invisible, private
ribbon that connected them. He didn’t sense that she was shutting him out
so much as that she, like him, was simply in waiting mode, with little to do
while Professor Odin-Vann prepared the recaptured crimson thread for its
return to the mystical Loom from which it, as the symbol of Morgan, had
been plucked. According to the Professor, there was a good bit of magic
that needed to go along with the returned thread in order to reset the Loom
and jump-start the Vault of Destinies again.
Or perhaps, James mused disconsolately, the young professor, like

James himself, was simply reluctant to see his old friend vanish from the
world forever, and was finding reasons to delay her departure. Zane
believed this firmly, implying, via the Shard, that Odin-Vann and Petra were
much more than friends.
“His eyes go all ablaze whenever he’s around her,” he insisted one
afternoon, half-a-month after the debacle of the World Between the Worlds.
“You saw it yourself. When they talk about what he calls her ‘final
mission’, he gets so antsy he looks like he’s about to jump right out of his
skin. They obviously have a thing.”
James, re-tying his tie after mid-day Quidditch practice, shrugged
and shook his head at the Shard where it lay propped on his bed in the
Gryffindor dormitory. He knew what Zane meant by “a thing”, of course,
and didn’t like it in the least. Not because he didn’t think it was true, or
even likely—it was far more plausible that Petra would fall for the worldlywise older man than the younger friend still in school—but because he
hated the thought so intensely. He hated the jealousy it provoked in his
chest mostly because he loved Petra himself, but also because he liked
Professor Odin-Vann. He liked the professor’s odd quirks and restrained
fervor and his commitment to helping Petra.
Still, if the young man did harbor a romantic affection for Petra,
how could James blame him? Maybe, at least, it meant that Petra would
enjoy her last days in the world she was born into. If James’ love for her
was true, he would want her to be happy, right? Even if that meant finding
comfort and love in another man’s arms.
The thought made him prickle all over as he knotted his tie violently
under his chin, his hair still damp from a cursory shower.
With a yawn, Zane said, “But I still think this whole ‘magical
catalyst’ thing Odin-Vann’s on about is complete Doxie doo.” It was still
morning, Zane’s time, and he was lounging in his pajamas—a pair of tooshort bottoms printed with bright blue snowflakes beneath an orange tee
shirt—seated cross-legged on the rumple of his bed with a steaming mug of
coffee balanced on one knee. “I may not like old Professor Stonewall
much, but I trust his gigantic noggin. If he says all that’s needed is for the
thread to be put back into the Loom, then that’s the way it is. Snap, bang,
and Petra is gone to her new dimension. But I guess there’s no harm in
being overly prepared, right? Especially if it’s just an excuse for the pointybearded professor Odin-Vann to have a few more romantic evenings with

his doomed love.”
James said goodbye to Zane abruptly and stuffed the Shard back
into his trunk, not wishing to think any further about Odin-Vann and Petra
having “romantic evenings”, no matter how doomed.
The truth was, as the days began to tick by like minutes on a clock,
James knew that he had to get over his own hopeless affection for Petra. It
would only make it harder for both of them to do what needed to be done.
And if Petra was indeed romantically involved with Odin-Vann, then
perhaps that was all the better.
James, on the other hand, had Millie Vandergriff.
Almost without any official declaration, the two of them had
become what Zane referred to as “a thing”, and subtly, the dynamic of
James’ entire school experience had changed.
Millie met him occasionally in the halls and walked to classes or
meals with him. Sometimes (though not always) she would reach for his
hand and hold it lightly as they walked, talking breezily of this or that,
pretending to ignore the electricity of their laced fingers, while other
students (usually girls) watched furtively and whispered.
Millie often joined James, alongside Ralph and Rose and sometimes
Scorpius, for study sessions and homework in the library. She even came,
on rare occasions, to hang out with James in the Gryffindor common room.
He returned the gesture once, going to see her in the Hufflepuff quarters,
which were low and warm, accessed by a tunnel behind a stack of barrels
near the kitchens. James was welcomed by the Hufflepuffs, but didn’t feel
quite at home there, despite the mellow wooden furniture and the round
dormitory doors reminiscent of a hedgehog’s warren.
Another thing James discovered, with a mixture of pride and
consternation, was that dating Millie meant that she (accompanied usually
by a small gaggle of her girlfriends) attended his Quidditch practices. She
and her entourage would be seated high in the Hufflepuff grandstands,
usually chattering obliviously, except when Millie applauded James for
some well-executed maneuver. He was invariably embarrassed on these
occasions, and yet the sight of her guileless smile and unabashed cheering
warmed his heart, even as the air turned cool and crisp all around.
He liked Millie. He liked the way her eyes sparkled when she saw
him in the halls, and her unselfconscious precociousness, and the way she
didn’t always reach for his hand, or sit next to him in class, or accompany

him into the Great Hall for dinner. If she had obsessed and fawned over
him (the way Chance Jackson had begun to with Albus, although Albus
himself seemed not to mind) James would have quickly felt stifled and
overwhelmed. Instead, Millie maintained a sense of pleasant, teasing
unpredictability and mystery.
Often, instead of joining James at his table in the library, she would
breeze past and sit with a group of fellow Hufflepuffs. He would glance up
at her throughout the evening, watching her laugh with her friends, or bite
the feather of her quill as she read, or practice spell-motions with her wand
while studying the diagrams in The Caster’s Lexicon. But every now and
then he would catch her glancing up at him, just as he was her. Usually she
would look away, smiling sheepishly. Sometimes, however, her eyes would
lock with his, briefly, sharing a surprisingly intimate moment across the
hushed anonymity of the library.
James became aware that Millie’s family was what Scorpius referred
to as “old magic”: exceedingly wealthy, historically pureblood, and
aristocratically connected. Millie herself scoffed at any suggestion that her
family was influential in any way, or that she took any cache from it if they
were.
“I barely represent them at all, much to my mother’s chagrin,” she
told James with a wry smile. “You’ll meet the Vandergriff kith and kin
soon enough, I hope. You can make up your own judgment about them
when you do.”
On some occasions James felt bold enough to kiss Millie, usually in
the evenings after he walked her to the Hufflepuff common room, where
they huddled in the nook formed by the stacks of barrels. He would kiss
her until her lips formed a delighted smile and she withdrew, her face as
flushed as his, whispering breathless goodnights. He would watch her duck
into the hidden entry, and then walk back the way he’d come, hot and
tingling beneath his collar, blaming it on the flickering torches that lined the
walls around the kitchens.
Sometimes he thought guiltily of Petra. When he did, he would
insist to himself that she was probably doing the same thing with Professor
Odin-Vann. After all, it wasn’t like James and Petra were, or had ever been,
“a thing”. Petra wouldn’t feel jealous of Millie. She would be delighted
that James was happy.
He repeated this to himself, while simultaneously hoping that it

wasn’t remotely true.
Midnight Quidditch started up again, and as much as Graham had
warned James not to be involved, he simply couldn’t bring himself to stay
away. It wasn’t merely that it counted, in James’ mind, as extra team
practice. He also relished, more than anything, the chance to ride his
beloved skrim, surfing the dark air in ways that no broom could quite
duplicate.
Scorpius informed James of weekly matches via notes passed in
Herbology class, which James quickly read and, per arrangement,
immediately fed to the giant potted Cobra Lily.
He told no one of the Night Quidditch matches, especially Ralph,
who would have felt exquisitely awkward knowing of such things in his
new role as Head Boy. And yet, despite informal rules to the contrary,
James was by no means the only official house Quidditch player who also
appeared in the clandestine matches. His sister Lily had been on the night
league even longer than she’d been playing for the Gryffindor team. Both
Nolan Beetlebrick and Trenton Bloch appeared on the Slytherin night team.
Julien Jackson had begun to play for the Hufflepuffs only after she had
snuck out the previous year to chastise Stanley Jasper, the daytime
Hufflepuff Seeker, about his extra-curricular involvement, only to become
swept up irresistibly in the night league herself.
As usual, the teams compensated for their nights of lost sleep via a
special potion brewed by Scorpius and Ashley Doone from a questionably
legal plant called Somnambulis. Officially, Professor Longbottom had
ceased growing the plant three years earlier. Unofficially, Scorpius was still
able to “steal” a fresh supply every three weeks from a cluttered back
corner of the greenhouse.
Professor Longbottom himself still attended some night league
matches, albeit anonymously, dressed in a deep hooded robe and rarely
speaking. Nor was he the only secret observer. On any given night, the
grandstands were peppered with as many as two dozen robed and disguised
figures, most seated well away from each other, all slipping away
wordlessly as the matches concluded. James was quietly certain that one of
the observers was, in fact, Professor McGonagall, as evidenced by her
familiar purposeful walk and rigid posture.
Unlike daytime matches, which were wild and deafening affairs, the
night league was characterized by feverishly hushed matches, punctuated

only by harsh whispers, the whoosh of the gently glowing Bludgers, and the
occasional bone-rattling crunch and yelp as one of the balls struck its mark.
The loudest moments were when rasped arguments broke out over the
always nebulous and changing league rules, or when goals were made,
whereupon hoarse cheers and jeers would waft over the pitch, accompanied
by the dull thumping of gloved hands, applauding by moon glow.
At the end of the third match of the season, as Scorpius was
summoning the blue-glowing Bludgers and forcing them into the old trunk,
James approached with his skrim clutched under one arm, dripping sweat,
his shoes soaked with pre-dawn dew.
“There’s one thing the Night League is still missing,” he said, half
whispering in the misty dark. “Something to really set it apart from the
daytime matches.”
“Playing in the pitch dark of the wee hours on one of those daft
flying ironing boards isn’t enough for you, is it?”
“Game magic,” James nodded, ignoring Scorpius’ grumpy mood.
The Gryffindors had just lost to Hufflepuff, after all, although James
himself wasn’t particularly upset about it. The daylight teams were set to
compete later that week, and James was confident of a solid win for that
match-up.
“Game magic?” Scorpius scowled, his face lit blue by the glow of
the struggling Bludgers. “That’s from that ridiculous American game.
Cudgelclutch. We don’t do that.”
“We don’t, but we should,” James insisted. “All we’re doing now is
playing Quidditch in the dark.”
“With skrims optional,” Lily suggested, coming alongside James
and mopping her brow with her sleeve.
“And snitches only worth twenty points,” Julien Jackson piped up
smugly. “Sorry James. A good catch isn’t enough to seal a victory when
the moon’s up.”
James nodded, unperturbed. “Night league’s different enough, but it
could be better still, while also keeping us sharp with our wands. When I
first started, we used to use dueling spells, remember? But that got too
dangerous, with people getting blasted right off their brooms or getting
petrified and running into the grandstands. Game magic is specially
designed for use during sport. Imagine using a gravity well charm to
redirect a Bludger away from your head. Or a Bonefuse hex to make your

opponent drop the Quaffle!”
“Gravity wells? Bonefuse hexes?” Lily frowned. “Those aren’t in
the Caster’s Lexicon.”
Coming alongside his team captain, Stanley Jasper nodded,
warming to the idea. “Yeah, I’ve heard of that! Spells invented only for
sporting matches! I’ve used magic during scratch games back home,
playing against my older brothers, although it was never legal or anything.
Just a way to keep things interesting.”
“You’re just looking for an unfair advantage,” Julien suggested,
narrowing her eyes at James. “You’re already good at those spells. We’d
all still have to learn them.”
James shrugged, switching his skrim to his other arm. “Game magic
isn’t hard to learn. Most of it’s just variations on traditional dueling spells.
But if you don’t feel like you’d be up to facing off against me…” He
blinked up at the dark sky mournfully.
Julien frowned. “You’ll have to try harder than that to bait me,
Potter,” she said, poking him in the stomach with her broom handle. “But if
you want game magic, we’re more than a match for you. You get us a
Clutchcudgel rulebook with approved spells and watch what happens. You
want gravity wells? We’ll give you gravity wells deep enough to suck the
paint off your skrim.”
James grinned. “Now you’re talking!” He realized as he said it that
Zane Walker seemed to have rubbed off on him over the years, at least a
little.
The only class James had any serious difficulty with—apart from his
usual lackadaisical attitude towards studying and essay deadlines—was
Apparition. Despite its only being a twelve-week optional course offered
by the Ministry of Magic for qualifying seventh years, he’d become so
bored with the class that he wished he’d never asked his parents for the nine
Galleon laboratory fee to sign up. This was because the first ten weeks of
the course, much to his disappointment, were devoted to an intensive study
of Apparition technomancy, its myriad dangers, and the seemingly endless
legal ramifications of improper use. The instructor, a Mr. Wilkie Twycross,
was a very old man with white hair as fine as dandelion fluff and glasses so
huge and thick that James feared an errant sunbeam might cause the man’s
eyebrows to burst into flame. He insisted, in his high, tremulous voice, that
Apparition was “a binary process, allowing no luxury of a learning curve.

You will either do it perfectly and properly, or you will fail abominably.
There is no in-between. Apart, of course, from the very real possibility that
you may Reapparate in-between two floors, or much worse.”
He eyed James as he said this, his pale blue pupils magnified to the
size of eggs behind his bulbous eye-glasses. James pretended to take notes.
On the top of his parchment were the words Destination, Determination,
and Deliberation. He had foregone any further note-taking, choosing
instead to studiously apply more and more emphasis to Twycross’ initial
“three Ds”, adding multiple underlines, quotation marks, circles, and
arrows. As Twycross droned on, beginning again his prescribed preDissaparation checklist, James sighed and lay down his quill.
He knew he’d be excellent at Apparition when the time came. He
longed to try it for the first time, even considered attempting it on his own,
outside of class. He sat up again at the idea, telling himself he could recruit
Millie and Ralph to do it with him. Ralph was less eager to attempt
Apparition himself, but he would probably be glad of the chance to practice
it first without an audience.
He picked up his quill again and, underneath the Three Ds, wrote:
Who’s ready to bunk all this and just try it?
Keeping his eyes on Twycross, he nudged Ralph on his right and
slid the parchment toward him. Ralph read the note and shrugged a little
uncertainly. James repeated the gesture on his left, for Millie’s benefit. He
half expected her to give him one of her eager, precocious smiles, but she
merely blinked at him in awed surprise, and then scribbled a note beneath
his.
Apparition scares the hair off me! I would pay NOT to do it!
James was mildly surprised, but didn’t press it. He supposed it was
possible to be frightened of Apparation, especially in light of Twycross’
hectoring warnings. But James knew it was mostly quite safe, if you
understood what you were doing. He’d side-along Apparated with his mum
and dad on many occasions, and they’d never been splinched, skunched,
contrasected, unverted, or any of the other dire things Twycross warned
about. They’d never left behind even a single fingernail or had so much as
a sock turned inside-out.
At dinner, James suggested to Rose that the three of them sneak
back to the classroom that evening to give it a try.
“Fine,” Rose agreed, “But don’t tell Scorpius. For once, I want to

know how to do something before he does.”
“You know how to do everything before everybody,” James blinked
at her, but Rose shook her head, glaring down the table toward her onagain, off-again boyfriend, with whom she was apparently back off-again.
“His parents hire tutors for him every summer to ‘prepare him for
the rigours of the next scholastic term’.” This time she implied the quotes
with a snarky tone, but James heard hurt more than nastiness in her voice.
“But I doubt even he’s been allowed to practice Disapparation before he’s of
legal age.”
Regardless of Rose’s reasons, James was glad of her
accompaniment.
Seated a little further down the table from Scorpius was Albus, once
again joining the Gryffindors to accompany Chance Jackson, whose crush
on Albus was finally, apparently, being reciprocated. He allowed her to
feed him strawberry slices with her fingers while he regaled her friends
with some story or other. As James watched, the group dissolved into
laughter and Chance threw an arm around Albus, leaning her head onto his
shoulder.
“Ugh,” James shook his head, turning away.
“Now you know how the rest of us feel whenever you bring Millie
Vandergriff over for a snog,” Graham commented.
“We study, that’s all!” James insisted, surprised. He’d been very
careful not to let anyone see him kissing Millie.
Deirdre rolled her eyes. “You two are snogging even when your
noses are buried in books. It’d be adorable if it was a bit less painfully
obvious.”
James’ face heated and he knew he was blushing fiercely. The truly
embarrassing part was, deep down, he knew he wasn’t as infatuated with
Millie as everyone thought he was, probably even her.
As he gathered his things and left the Great Hall, he realized that he
felt, more than anything, like a total clod. After all, despite the heady thrills
of kissing Millie and the tremulous mystery of dating her, he knew he was
mostly using her as a sort of human shield, a distraction from the hopeless,
doomed love that he felt for Petra.
He determined it couldn’t go on. It wasn’t fair to her.
But he also didn’t want to break her heart. Not yet, at least.
The holidays were coming soon. Maybe he could do it then, while

they were apart for a while.
He felt slightly better having decided this, and relegated the worries
to a back corner of his mind until the time came for him to act on this new
plan.
That evening, he and Rose met Ralph outside the Apparition
classroom.
“What do you keep looking for?” James asked, noticing Rose’s
backwards glance for the third time as they gathered around the classroom
door.
“I don’t know,” she whispered. “I keep thinking someone is
following us.”
“Who cares? We’ve got the Head Boy with us. We can’t be up to
mischief.” James reached for the door handle and gave it a tug. The door
rattled but didn’t budge. “Oh. Well. Unlocking a classroom door isn’t
mischief, exactly. Especially the way Rose does it.”
Rose hid a look of pride as she fingered her wand. “I might have
left my notes in there, after all. Or we might have heard a suspicious noise.
We’re just doing our duty, checking it out.”
A suspicious noise suddenly echoed from the depths of the hall
behind them—a scrape and a thump, as if someone around a corner had
dropped a book. Ralph jumped, and then ran a hand over his face in
nervous annoyance.
“Stop winding me up,” he nudged James with his elbow. “If we’re
going to do this, let’s get it over with. There’s no rule against practicing
stuff we’re learning. And this classroom is usually unlocked.”
James had an idea that the classroom was locked right now because
it was temporarily exempt from the anti-Disapparation spell that blanketed
the school, but chose not to remind Ralph of that fact.
Rose spoke the unlocking spell and her wand burst a spark of golden
light. The bolt clicked and the door budged open. James gave it a push and
the well-oiled hinges swung silently, revealing the darkened classroom.
The three crept inside.
By moonlight, the empty half of the room looked like a haunted
dance floor, decorated strangely with pale hoops, three ranged beneath the
windows, matched with three more beneath the chalkboard. The class
tables and chairs were pushed close together in the rear of the room,
overlooking the as-yet unused practice area.

“Well?” James asked, glancing aside at Rose and Ralph with an
unexpected stab of trepidation. “Who’s first?”
“This was your idea, cousin,” Rose said, prodding him forward.
“You have the honours.”
James nodded and swallowed hard. But then, suddenly, Ralph
moved past him, stepping carefully inside one of the hoops.
“I’m Head Boy,” he gulped. “It’s, like, my duty to go first. To
make sure it’s safe and all. Also,” he admitted, offering James a sheepish
grimace, “if I don’t get this over with now, my nerve will go right out the
window.”
James blinked at his friend, both impressed and suddenly worried.
What if something did go horribly wrong? What if Ralph got splinched, or
skunched, or contrasected? James realized he didn’t even know what
contrasecting was. He cursed himself for not paying more attention in
class.
“Rose,” he muttered out of the corner of his mouth, “what’s
contrasecting?”
Rose glanced aside at him and frowned. “Why do you ask?”
James raised a cautionary hand to Ralph, opened his mouth to offer
a warning, but at that moment the big boy squeezed his eyes tight shut,
fisted his hand on his wand, and gulped a breath. The over-sized wand in
Ralph’s hand sizzled suddenly with pinkish light, and then vanished, along
with the boy himself, leaving only a bang of rushing air. An agonizingly
long moment later, the pink light of Ralph’s wand illuminated the opposite
side of the classroom and Ralph reappeared with a pop. He thumped to the
floor and his knees buckled slightly.
“Brilliant, Ralph!” Rose said, moving to examine him, her eyes
sharp. “You look fine. No visible splinching. And only a little residual
magic,” she commented, glancing back over her shoulder. James saw it as
well: a faint trail of pink light was still settling to the classroom floor,
drawing a line from where Ralph had begun to where he now stood,
breathing hard, his eyes wide and startled.
“Why did it do that?” Ralph panted, frowning worriedly at the
settling pink glow.
“Magical exhaust,” Rose nodded, as if she’d expected this. “It’s all
in Twycross’ book. First timers rely too much on the magic of their wands,
rather than their own intrinsic power. They propel themselves a little, like

disapparation is a spell to cast, not an ability to hone. It’s perfectly normal.
You’ll learn to let go of the wand as you practice. Think of it as magical
training wheels.”
“Wow,” Ralph breathed, and then gave a nervous laugh. “Look at
me. I did it!”
James clapped his friend on the back, happy that his own
momentary worry had gone unspoken. “I knew you were up to it, Ralph,”
he lied. “Just wait until we tell Zane you nailed your first Disapparation!
He’ll hate that he wasn’t here to see it!”
Rose shrugged. “Ralph could just Apparate to Alma Aleron and tell
him himself.”
“No way,” Ralph raised both hands and took a step backwards.
“Let’s not get crazy. A step across a classroom is way different than a trip
across the ocean.”
Rose rolled her eyes impatiently, “Actually, no, it isn’t. Neither of
you pay the slightest attention in class, do you?”
“Your turn, James,” Ralph gave him a friendly push toward the rings
beneath the windows. “If I can do it, it’ll be a cinch for you.”
James nodded and approached the windows, placing his feet
carefully inside one of the white rings. He gripped his own wand in his
right hand, happy to use whatever “training wheels” were available to him
for his first solo apparition. He turned around to face the opposite side of
the room, and blinked in startled surprise.
Behind Rose and Ralph, three figures stood huddled in the partially
open classroom door. Despite their silhouetted shadows, James could still
make out their nasty grins and beady eyes.
“What do you, want?” he asked, masking his surprise with anger.
Rose and Ralph spun on the spot to see the three younger students
peering around the door frame. Edgar Edgecombe was in the middle,
flanked as usual by his mates, Quincy Ogden and Polly Heathrow. Ogden’s
greasy black hair hid one eye as he glared at them, while Heathrow, the
tallest of the three, narrowed her eyes with unmistakable glee.
“Get out of here, all of you,” Rose said, jamming her fists onto her
hips. “This is a closed practice. You won’t even be in this class for six
more years.”
“You’re not in this class,” Polly Heathrow said, raising her pointed
chin at Rose. “And practicing Apparition is against the rules. Surprised I

need to remind you of that, Granger.”
“The name’s Weasley,” Rose said, rising to her full height.
“Granger is my mother, and I’m not her. Too bad for you, because she’d
never even think of doing the things that I’m considering.” She took a step
forward, brandishing her wand meaningfully.
“That great lunk-head behind you is the Weasley of the threesome,”
Polly wrinkled her nose and pointed at Ralph. “The incompetent clod
who’s only along for comic relief. ‘Head Boy’ my grandma’s knee-length
knickers!”
“The Golden Trio, reborn!” Ogden sneered. “Potter, ‘the chosen
one’; Weasley, the bumbling prat; and Granger, the insufferable know-itall. Think they can do whatever they want. Even curse a bunch of precious
first-years.”
James raised his own wand now and took three brisk steps toward
the door, opening his mouth, not even sure which hex or jinx was going to
come out, hoping distantly that it wouldn’t be something too awful.
“I’ll tell you what, Potter and Granger,” Edgar Edgecombe
interrupted James, still smiling nastily. “You pocket your wands and do a
little Disapparation demonstration for us, and we won’t run off to the
library to tattle on you for breaking into the classroom and performing
illegal magic. Professor Heretofore’s on duty, and she’s in a detention sort
of mood, I’d wager. Your call.”
James still had his wand out, pointed at Edgecombe. He bit back
the spell that had been forming on his lips (the Dancing Feet jinx-- he’d
been a bit too careful, perhaps) and glanced aside at Rose. She was still
glaring at the three, her wand raised but tilted slightly up at the ceiling.
Suddenly she shrugged and dropped her hand to her side.
“Fine,” she said breezily. “I think you were up, James.” She turned
to look at him, her face carefully composed to display no emotion at all.
James knew his cousin, however, and recognized that this was her most
dangerous expression of all.
He nodded slowly. “Right. Fair enough, I guess.” He glanced back
at the three in the doorway. “But look, I don’t know what you lot are on
about, but you’re completely mental. We’re not anyone’s ‘Golden Trio’.”
“Yeah,” Ralph nodded. “And besides, if you count Zane, we’d be
more of a… what you think? A silver rhombus?”
Rose shrugged. “A trapezoid, I imagine. And let’s go with

platinum.”
James blinked rapidly at Rose and Ralph. Ralph was simply
nervous and blabbering, mostly worried about getting caught. But Rose
was fuming with fury. It came off of her in palpable waves, despite her
carefully blank face.
Lowering his wand, James turned and retraced his steps back to the
white rings under the windows, stepping into the one in the middle. He
turned around and tried to ignore the grinning glares of the three younger
students in the doorway. It was impossible, of course. He could feel their
eyes like hot little beetles, crawling all over him. He focused instead on
Ralph and Rose, who stood in the shadows next to the chalkboard, near the
matching three rings. Ralph offered him an encouraging nod, but his face
was taut with worry. Rose’s mouth was pressed into a tight line now that
she’d turned away from Edgecombe and his crew. Her eyes sparked like
flints, although James couldn’t guess what she was planning.
He closed his eyes, fisted his fingers on his lowered wand, and
realized with a cold shock that he had absolutely no idea what he was
doing. All the confidence and assurance had leaked right out of him.
Destination, he recited to himself, Determination… and…? He
couldn’t remember the third one.
Eyes still squeezed shut, he conjured a mental image of the
classroom. He imagined the desks and chairs pushed together in neat rows
on one side, overlooking the practice floor. There, he pictured three rings
beneath the rank of windows, with him standing in the middle. Across the
dim floor, three more rings lay in a neat row, powdered with chalk dust
from the board above. James chose the middle ring, and concentrated on it,
willing himself to go to it.
Something flexed deep in his mind.
It didn’t happen
instantaneously, as he’d imagined it would. Instead, the world seemed to
slow down all around, to grow insubstantial, to shrink away, taking all
sound and sensation with it. Silence like the first snowfall pressed against
his ears. James remembered enough technomancy to understand that he
was entering a sort of flux-state now, becoming momentarily incorporeal,
unfocusing from the here-and-now and refocusing on the there-and-then.
But then something startled him. There was an explosion of light
and sound, illuminating the emptiness behind his eyelids and buffeting him
with waves of force. He retreated from the noise and light, and his

concentration faltered. His mental image of the classroom cracked,
shattered, and he sensed his discorporated form falling back into himself. It
happened too soon. He felt the wrongness of it even before his feet
stumbled to the floor again, disconcertingly far apart.
He came back to himself with a shock and a gasp.
TWO gasps.
He tried to open his eyes, and realized that he was seeing double.
Or rather, he was seeing the classroom from two entirely different
perspectives, each perfectly overlaid over the other, obliterating each other
into nonsense. He swayed and clapped a hand to his heads.
Somewhere nearby, Ralph yelped and stumbled backwards,
slamming his shoulder against the chalkboard, which rattled and rained bits
of chalk to the floor. Rose gasped in shock.
From the doorway, Edgecombe’s voice was thin with mingled awe
and laughter. “Look at that! Will you look at THAT!”
“James!” Rose said, moving urgently into the middle of the room,
between the rings, and looking back and forth swiftly. “Are you… all
right?”
“What happened?” James asked, and heard his voice twice, echoing
from both sides of the room. Dimly, he saw himself. It was like looking in
a funhouse mirror, one that both distorted your shape into something
inhuman and doubled the view. In one view, he saw his own head and
shoulders, one arm, one leg, standing before the chalkboard, wobbling
slightly. In the other view, perfectly overlaid atop it, he saw an exact
duplicate of himself still standing one-legged in the ring beneath the
windows.
There were two of him, but only almost. He was stuck in midapparation, half-duplicated, with neither part completely whole.
“Holy hinkypunks!” the two Jameses cried thinly, staring at each
other across the dark and dusty floor. “I’m still over there!” The two
versions of himself pointed at each other with their single arm each, one an
empty left hand, the other a right hand still fisted on his wand.
“Well,” Rose said with a helpless shrug. “At least now you know
what contrasecting is.”
There was a hiss of hysterical laughter, followed by a thumping of
footsteps as Edgecombe, Heathrow, and Ogden scrambled and ran from the
door. Their laughter turned to mean hoots, echoing back from the corridor

as they hurried away, surely eager to tell everyone what they’d seen.
“Stop them!” James said twice, but Rose was already striding to the
door, her wand snapping up in her hand. She leaned economically around
the door frame and fired three red bolts in quick succession. The hooting
laughter choked to silence, followed by three messy thumps.
“Oh, this is bad,” Ralph said, his voice an octave higher than
normal. He wrung his hands fretfully, glancing from Rose’s raised wand to
James’ doubled form. “This is so bad! We’re doomed! We’re seriously,
completely, totally--!”
“Ralph, get a grip,” Rose said firmly, pocketing her wand again.
“Go drag those three into a closet or something. Get them out of the
corridor until they wake up again. I’ll…” She glanced back and forth
between the two partial Jameses. He saw her glance at him twice from his
two different perspectives. “I’ll go get help.”
“Not Twycross,” James said with his oddly doubled voice,
struggling to keep his two forms standing on one foot each. “Odin-Vann.”
Rose nodded, understanding. Briskly, she turned and bolted through
the door, her robes flying.
“Oh, man,” Ralph muttered again, his voice still unnaturally high.
“Are you, like, OK, James?”
James rolled his eyes and felt a wave of dizziness at the doubled
effect. “Never better. I love this. I can comb my hair without a mirror.
Mum would be so proud. Go move those three twits before somebody sees
them.”
Ralph nodded briskly, as if suddenly remembering the stunned firstyears in the corridor outside. He turned jerkily, his heels scraping in chalk
dust, and hurried through the door, apparently relieved to flee from the
disconcerting sight.
James steadied himselves. It was easier to stand on one foot each
than he expected, and he realized it was because both versions of himself
were still somehow connected through empty space. His consciousness was
split between them, stretched across the centre of the room like a rubber
band. And some small sliver of his mind, he realized, was still floating in
the discorporated ether of the flux. There, the view was not doubled,
merely blank. Except not completely blank, now that he focused on it. He
could see the faint glimmer of his and Petra’s silver/crimson cord. It
stretched off in floating curls, fading into distance. He could probably

follow the cord if he wished, leaving behind the alarming split of his form.
But he knew instinctively that that would be disastrous. If he fled from his
doubled body, he might never be able to come back to it again.
He sighed harshly, fear and annoyance settling in his mind in equal
measures. He tried to focus on the classroom again, looking from his
strangely doubled perspective, and saw something lying in the centre of the
practice floor between the lines of white rings. Bright blue shreds of
wrapper surrounded a tiny scorched starburst. James shook his heads,
realizing at once what it was. Edgecombe had thrown a Weasley Wizard
Wheezes firecracker into the room just as James had attempted his
Disapparation. The seemingly planet-sized explosion he had encountered
in the flux was barely a crack of noise and puff of sparks from a harmless
novelty.
Harmless under any other circumstance, of course.
Ralph came back a moment later, huffing, with figures clutched
under both of his arms. Ogden and Heathrow lolled like life-sized ragdolls
as Ralph flung them onto a desk each.
“Not in here, Ralph,” the Jameses sighed. “I don’t want to look at
their stupid faces. Especially twice at once.”
“We have to keep an eye on them,” Ralph shook his head, hurrying
back to the door. “Odin-Vann will know what to do, right? He’s a teacher.”
“And you’re Head Boy,” James reminded him. “Use your, what do
you call it, executive authority. Forbid them from talking about it. Give
them punishments. Promise to take away a hundred house points if they
blab.”
“It doesn’t work that way!” Ralph said with sudden strength, turning
to glance first at one James, and then the other. He shook his head with
harried annoyance. “Just shut it for a minute. The two of you are giving
me a headache.”
He disappeared through the door again. When he came back into
view a moment later with Edgecombe’s chunky body heaved over his
shoulder, he paused, looking along the corridor. He backed up a step as
Professor Odin-Vann approached the door with Rose close behind.
“You,” the professor said, frowning uncertainly and pointing at the
stunned boy slung over Ralph’s shoulder like a lumpy bag of sand. “You
didn’t…?” He glanced back at Rose for a moment, and then shook his
head. “Never mind. First things first.”

He ushered Ralph into the room ahead of him, and then entered
himself, stopping in the doorway and gripping the frame with both hands,
as if for support.
“Son of a banshee,” he swore under his breath, his eyes wide,
flicking back and forth between James’ doubled forms.
“We were practicing Disapparation,” the Jameses said.
“Failing spectacularly at it, more like,” Odin-Vann said, and gave a
low whistle. “I’ve never seen a contrasection this complete. Do you… still
think with a complete brain?”
“I don’t think he’s ever thought with a complete brain,” Rose
sighed, approaching the Jameses with a shake of her head. She looked back
and forth between them. “What can you do, Professor?”
Odin-Vann stood next to her, a studious frown creasing his face.
“Normally this would take a team of healers from the misapplied magic
wing of St. Mungos,” he admitted thoughtfully. “But I see you have your
wand with you, James. Did you, perhaps, use it to assist your
Disapparation?”
“Rose said it was like training wheels!” James exclaimed
defensively, his twinned voice louder than expected. “Ralph did it and only
left a trail of pink exhaust across the room. I thought it was harmless!”
“It is harmless,” Odin-Vann nodded, his own voice almost eerily
calm. “But if you used your wand to fuel your Apparation, I may know a
way to undo it.”
The young professor glanced from James to James. James made eye
contact with both glances.
“Which one’s the original?” Odin-Vann asked, and then turned to
the James still standing in front of the windows. “That one,” he said,
pointing. “Your wand made it across the room, to James number two.
That’s good.”
As the Jameses watched, Odin-Vann raised his own wand and
pointed it at the James standing in front of the chalkboard, his wand fisted
in his single hand. Odin-Vann paused for a moment as a look of doubt
crossed his face, and then he cleared his eyes. When he spoke, the word
sounded more like a command than a spell.
“Priori invortu!”
A bolt of white lightning connected Odin-Vann’s wand to James’,
snaking and arcing for several long seconds. James felt the wand vibrating

in his hand, but held on tight, unsure if the spell would work if he dropped
it. The vibration built to a thrum that nearly numbed his fingers. Then,
with a sound like a whip-crack, the second James flipped back through
itself and merged back into the first, who stumbled backwards three steps,
struck the window hard enough to rattle the panes, and collapsed to the
floor in a clumsy heap.
Rose rushed to James’s side and grabbed his face in her hands,
turning his head this way and that.
“Get off,” he moaned impatiently. “I’m fine. Lemme be.”
Rose ignored his protests and continued to inspect him. Behind her,
Odin-Vann turned his attention from the re-incorporated figure of James to
the wand in his hand. He studied it with apparent satisfaction.
“Do your eyebrows always look like that?” Rose said, squeezing
James’ cheeks between her palms and forcing his head up toward the
moonlight. “All scrunched together and unruly in the middle?”
“I’m fine!” James insisted, finally batting her hands away. “Geroff
me!” He began to struggle uncertainly to his feet, but his knees felt like
rubber and his head suddenly spun with dizziness. He dropped back to the
floor.
“It was their fault,” Ralph said, moving alongside Odin-Vann and
pointing at the three younger students, who were just beginning to stir.
“Edgecombe threw a firecracker at James just as he was beginning his
Disapparation!”
Edgecombe moaned loudly, rolled, and fell off the desk where Ralph
had tossed him. He hit the floor with a muffled thump and his moan turned
into an affronted grunt. Polly Heathrow sat up blearily, her pigtails
flopping. Quincy Ogden gave a sudden, snorting snore.
“So you stunned them?” Odin-Vann said, still calm, glancing from
Ralph to Rose.
“Only when they started to run away,” she answered shrilly.
“Believe me, they had it coming. And loads more!”
Edgecombe spoke up then, his voice mushy. “They were practicing
illegal magic, Professor. They broke into the classroom!”
“Yeah,” Heathrow added, cupping a hand gingerly to her forehead.
“And then they cursed us! They cursed us just because we saw them!”
“They cursed you,” Odin-Vann said, his voice as calm and pedantic
as if he’d been standing in his own classroom in broad daylight, “because

you startled them with a contraband incendiary device. You attacked them.
They responded on instinct. You might consider yourselves fortunate that
they merely stunned you.”
“But…!” Edgecombe spluttered, his eyes bulging as he glared at
James, then Ralph and Rose. “But they were performing illegal magic!”
“Mr. Deedle and Mr. Potter were practicing a prescribed class
exercise. This is the only classroom they can do it in. I gave them
permission to unlock the door. You, however, were skulking around the
halls looking to cause trouble. Do you perhaps have any more Weasley
Wizard Wheezes contraband merchandise in your pockets?”
Edgecombe’s face clamped shut tight, clearly understanding that the
odds had turned against him. Polly Heathrow slid her feet to the floor and
gave Ogden a sharp jab with her elbow. He groaned and stirred.
“We were only having a little fun,” she said sulkily, throwing James
a black glare.
“Ah,” Odin-Vann nodded sadly, “the myriad gleeful horrors that
have been committed in the name of ‘a little fun’. I suggest you three go
directly back to your dormitory before I determine to investigate the matter
any further. And if I so much as sniff that you’ve mentioned a word of
James’ misfortune to anyone-- a misfortune I would be careful to point out
was entirely your fault-- I shall see that you receive every ounce of the
consequences that you are due. Am I quite clear?”
Edgecombe got to his feet, his cheeks burning red and his eyes
sullen. He deigned not to reply, but the angry submission in his eyes was
answer enough. Head down, he stalked out of the room, followed closely
by Polly Heathrow. Quincy Ogden, still swaying on his feet, bumped the
doorframe with his shoulder as he ambled along after.
Odin-Vann hunkered down in front of James, pocketing his wand.
“Feeling a bit more put together, are you?”
“A bit,” James admitted. “Thanks for handling those three for us.”
“Hush,” Odin-Vann said, glancing back toward the door. “Nary a
word. They had it coming, meddling in a first-time Disapparation. Things
might have turned out much worse. Don’t let it rattle you.”
“What was that spell you used, Professor?” Rose asked, sighing and
plopping to the floor next to James. “I’ve never heard of a Priori Invortu
incantation.”
Odin-Vann glanced at her, then down at his own wand again. “It’s

a… proprietary spell of my own devising,” he answered vaguely. “It
simply reads another wand’s most recent spell and automatically performs a
counter-spell, if one exists.”
Ralph leaned against the nearby desks and frowned. “So since firsttime Apparators usually use their wands to help make the magic happen,
your wand was able to undo James’ attempt using a… what?”
Odin-Vann shrugged and pushed his wand into a pocket of his
robes. “Couldn’t tell you, precisely. Not because I don’t know, but because
the process is purely automatic. I’ve been programming counter-spells and
anti-jinxes into my wand for months now, but tonight, I admit, was my first
chance to really test it out. If I had to guess, I’d say it probably used a
modified lanyard charm to retrieve James’ doubled form and undo his
interrupted Apparation.” He seemed both quietly proud of this, and
carefully evasive, as if he deeply wanted to talk more about it, but felt the
need to protect his methods. Perhaps he didn’t want to reveal too much
until the process was perfected.
“I’m just glad it worked,” James said, giving his head a firm shake,
as if to clear his mind.
“One of you should probably follow our new friends,” Odin-Vann
said, glancing aside at Rose and Ralph. “Just to assure that they abide by
my command and return directly to their dormitory. An evening with their
thoughts should suffice in convincing them to keep their mouths shut, but if
they should meet anyone in the halls tonight, their anger may still get the
better of them.”
Ralph nodded, pushing away from the desk. “I’ll do it. They have
to listen to me, at least.” He tapped the badge on his chest and shrugged.
“See you lot tomorrow. And let’s not do this again sometime.”
As Ralph left, James thought he could sense just the slightest spring
in the big boy’s step. Now that the disaster of James’ botched Apparation
was over and the trio of little prats had been put in their place, Ralph could
at least enjoy the fact that he had succeeded at his own first Apparition,
unlike James.
“You’ll be fine at it, next time,” Odin-Vann said, as if reading
James’ thoughts. He seated himself on the floor and held up a hand.
“Don’t try to get up just yet. Your body needs a few minutes to get
reacquainted with itself. Tell me, James,” he peered at him with a slightly
cocked head. “What was it like?”

“What, you mean being nearly split into two copies?” James asked,
a wave of embarrassment washing over him again. “It felt like being a
massive failure, that’s what. But it also felt…” He paused and narrowed
his eyes, “a little like being strung out between two cliffs, with nothing but
empty space between them. Part of me was stuck there, floating in the
nothing. I could feel it, and see into it a little.”
Odin-Vann was nodding. “The Transitus Nihilo. The void outside
of matter. Intriguing.”
“But it wasn’t a complete void,” James sighed and slumped. “I
could see the cord that connects me to Petra. It crosses the border of
Apparation with me. I could see it trailing off into the darkness.”
“Your connection,” Odin-Vann said thoughtfully. “The means by
which you travel to her when you’re asleep.”
“Whenever she lets me,” James agreed, slumping back against the
wall beneath the window.
Odin-Vann relaxed as well and went on in a different tone of voice.
“You know, I’ve been curious about that connection of yours, James. We
have a few minutes whilst you collect yourself. I wonder if you’d mind
telling me about it?”
Rose interjected suddenly, a bit too loudly. “Oh, James has been
besotted with Petra ever since his first years at Hogwarts. He’s just a
magical romantic and a poet. Not a very good poet, of course, but he’s a
Potter, so what can you expect?”
“No, Rose,” James said, glancing back and forth between his cousin
and the professor. “Look, if we’re going to trust each other enough to steal
back the crimson thread together and try to send Petra to be Morgan in
some other dimension, then we have to be willing to trust each other with
everything.” He focused on Odin-Vann again, who seemed merely to be
patiently waiting. “It happened right before my third year, when we were
on our way across the ocean to America and Alma Aleron…”
As briefly as he could, James recounted the story of how Petra had
climbed to the stern of the Gwyndemere just as a freakish storm descended
on the ship, threatening to capsize it amidst mountainous waves. He
described how Petra had been in a sort of confused funk, facing the storm
almost as if she meant to let it take her. Thus, when lightning struck the
ship, cleaving a mast and knocking her overboard so that she dangled
perilously from the rigging, she had considered letting the broken mast drag

her down into the depths. James had rushed to grasp her hand, but she had
resisted, asking him to let her fall.
“But I couldn’t,” he said, losing himself in the retelling, staring
down at the dark classroom floor, “I couldn’t let her die, no matter what she
said. There was nothing I could do, though. She started to slip from my
outstretched hand, and I realized she was letting go. She was loosening her
grip, ready to drop into the waves below the ship and sink. She fell, and it
felt like my own heart was falling away with her. And that’s when it
happened.”
“The cord appeared,” Odin-Vann half whispered.
“It caught Petra, connected my right hand to hers, glowing like an
acromantula web in the dark, vibrating like a harp string. It caught her and
I was able to pull her back up.”
Rose seemed to have accepted the fact that James was going to
share the entire story with Odin-Vann. She herself was now caught up in
the retelling. “Lucy wrote me about that night when she was in the States.
She was always a great one for writing letters. I remember it almost word
for word. They were all below decks, in the Captain’s quarters, watching
from the stern windows: Lucy, Merlin, Izzy, Uncle Harry and Aunt Ginny,
everyone. They saw Petra fall from the back of the ship and dangle in the
rigging. But then Merlin clouded the windows so they couldn’t see what
happened next. Uncle Harry was unhappy about it. He said they should do
something, but Merlin said no. Lucy quoted him exactly. He said
something like...” She squinted and thought for a moment. “He said that
the storm would claim its own, but the rest of them had nothing to fear.
And in the end, it turned out that he was right. James saved Petra by
borrowing from her own powers.” She glanced up at Odin-Vann, suddenly
unsure if she’d said too much, but he only nodded.
“I know of Petra’s strange and seemingly unlimited powers, as I’ve
already said. She hasn’t told me as much as I wish to know about them—I
don’t suppose she ever could-- but I do have some idea of what she is
capable of.” He shook his head thoughtfully and turned his attention back
to James, his eyes sharpening. “Petra was willing to die, you say? To fall
to her death from the back of the ship? But why, do you think?”
“She was confused,” James shook his head, probing his memory.
“She’d just lost her grandfather and was under suspicion in the
disappearance of her stepmother. She was homeless and lost and being

chased by a… a…” He stopped himself from mentioning Judith, the Lady
of the Lake, who had been conjured by the death of Petra’s stepmother
through a sort of poisoned bargain. Trusting Odin-Vann was one thing, but
James didn’t wish to complicate the matter any further-- or implicate Petra
any more deeply. He went on a little lamely, “Well, she was being chased
by her own guilt, in a way.” Another memory struck him and he sat up.
“But she had the brooch. It was sort of an opal thing with silver scrolly
stuff all around it. She’d said it was a gift from her father. It must have
come in the box of things that the Ministry sent her after he died in
Azkaban. She was wearing the brooch on the night of the storm. When she
fell off, it dropped into the waves, and she screamed. It seemed to represent
a lot to her-- the family she’d lost. The life she never had. I think that’s
what finally broke her, losing that one thing that connected her to her dead
parents.”
Odin-Vann wasn’t looking at James now. His gaze had drifted to the
black window behind James’ head, at which he nodded slowly,
thoughtfully. There was a strange glint in his eye. “But you were there,” he
mused, half to himself. “And you saved her. You saved her from herself.”
James sank back against the wall again. “I guess so. I spoke to my
dad afterward. He said that it was more than Petra’s magic that connected
us and kept her from falling. He said that it was like when he was a baby
and his mum was willing to die for him. Her death called on an older,
deeper magic, and it made a sort of unbreakable protection, saving my dad
from Voldemort’s curse. Dad said that because I was willing to die for
Petra when she fell, we made the same sort of bargain with the deep magic.
That’s what really saved her.”
Odin-Vann glanced back at James, his face clouding slightly.
“Really?” he said, and blinked. “Your dad, Harry Potter, told you that?”
James nodded. “He said he recognized the feeling of it.”
“But,” Odin-Vann said, as if reluctantly clarifying some small but
important point, “Your dad’s mum died to summon that deep magic. It was
her death that created the bond of protection, or so the story goes. You…”
he cleared his throat a little awkwardly. “You… didn’t die for Petra.” He
shook his head and shrugged a little in confusion.
James sighed again, deeply. “That’s what I told my dad. He didn’t
have any answers for me. Just said that because I was willing to trade
places with her… that must have been enough. The deep magic caused the

cord of her powers to appear, connecting us, letting me pull her back up. I
didn’t die. But somehow… being willing to was enough.” Suddenly, to
James’ own ears, it sounded weak and unsatisfying. But clearly it had
happened, hadn’t it? The Deep Magic had saved Petra, had permanently
connected them, just like his dad and Voldemort, even if James hadn’t
needed to die to make it happen.
At least… not yet.
The thought chilled him suddenly, deeply, all the way to the bone.
Odin-Vann seemed to dismiss the topic with another shrug. “Well, I
imagine you’ve convalesced enough to stand now, James. I would expect
no more trouble from our three young friends, Edgecombe, Heathrow, and
Ogden. At least, not about this. I have known young people like them in
my life, though, and they do always find new ways to spread their particular
brand of viciousness.”
Rose began to climb to her feet and shot a glance at the door, clearly
remembering the trio of poisonous first-years. “I almost hope they cross
my path again. I owe them more than a stunning. I can’t begin to imagine
what their gripe is.”
“Ah,” Odin-Vann said, rising and tugging James to his feet,
“Therein lies your mistake, Miss Weasley. You assume people like
Edgecombe have a specific gripe. Clearly it has not occurred to you that
some people like to harm others simply for the pure, unadulterated power
and pleasure of it. They may invent excuses to satisfy the diminished
shreds of their consciences, but they are merely that: excuses. Beneath the
lies they tell themselves, they fear you. They know you are better than
they. And they hate it. This is the source of their guile. My advice is:
don’t engage them any further. You will only frustrate yourself trying to
appeal to some buried sense of common decency. None such exists. Some
poisoned apples are poison all the way to the core.”
There was a coolness in the way that Odin-Vann spoke of
Edgecombe and his cronies. James wondered if the man had had his own
encounters with petty bullies, and then realized that the answer was
obvious. It was in the way the Professor seemed unable to perform magic
when under stress, despite his impressive skills and knowledge. He was a
man who had once been a boy, a boy who had likely been teased
mercilessly about his impotence under pressure, which would only have
made matters exponentially worse.

As the professor bid them goodnight and relocked the classroom
door, James didn’t know if he felt sorrier for the boy Odin-Vann had once
been, or angrier at the bullies people like Edgecombe always were. Mostly,
he was just weak with relief that the evening was over, the disaster had been
undone and averted, and thankful that Rose, for once, didn’t seem to feel
the need to discuss any of it with him as they walked and wended their way
back along the dark corridors toward Gryffindor tower. She merely nursed
a thoughtful frown, mulling her own thoughts, and James was glad.
Together, they clambered wearily through the portrait hole. Five
minutes later, James was on his bed, barely half undressed, sleeping the
sleep of complete exhaustion, not even aware that he was wearing two pairs
of magically identical underpants, and that both of his socks were inside
out.

10. HAGRID'S LETTER
The first snow fell on Hogwarts even before the autumn leaves had
fully abandoned the trees. The flakes fringed the remaining leaves with
sparkling beards, and then cloaked the entire forest with fluffy brilliance.
James awoke on the last day of November with grey brightness glaring
from the window next to his bed. He sat up blearily, rubbing his eyes, only
to find that it was not, in fact, breakfast time, but barely dawn. Outside, the
snow had converted the world to a blanket of unnatural brightness, fooling
even the birds in the forest, who sang and twittered in the muffling distance.
James was about to flop back onto his bed again when a shape
moved silently nearby, accompanied by the stir of coals in the stove at the
centre of the room. He was not alarmed, recognizing at once that it was the
house elf assigned to Gryffindor tower. He had seen the tiny imp on only a
few occasions over the years, but felt comfortable enough with it to whisper
a good morning.
Surprised, the elf stiffened so that its shoulders hunched up next to
its ears. Its head turned to look back at James with one enormous, crystalball-like eye. The iris was mossy green, surrounding a huge black pupil.
James could clearly see the reflection of the open stove door reflected in the
elf’s eyeball.
“Sorry, Master Potter,” the elf whispered back, hiding the squeak of

its voice. It was a male, James was quite sure, his ears pointed like bat’s
wings and large enough to serve as an umbrella in the event of rain. Like
most of the other Hogwarts house elves, this one wore a cloth napkin like a
small toga. The napkin was embroidered with the Hogwarts crest. “Piggen
didn’t mean to wake Master Potter, sir.”
“Piggen,” James yawned hugely, so that his jaw cracked. “That’s
really your name? Piggen?”
“Piggentottenwuggahooliguffin, sir,” the elf answered obediently,
still in a thin whisper. “Son of Tottenwuggahooliguffinoogersham.”
“Piggen it is, then,” James stretched and flopped so that his head
was at the foot of his bed. Arms crossed over his footboard, he studied the
elf by the stove. “It’s my last year, Piggen. Just thought maybe I should
introduce myself while I still have a chance.”
The elf’s eyes widened and he took a step backward on his huge,
bare feet. “No introduction needed, Master Potter, sir. Piggen is happy
never to be noticed as he stokes the fire and collects the laundry and dusts
and sweeps and cleans the bathroom—”
“My aunt Hermione wouldn’t let me come home for Christmas
dinner if she knew I’d had a chance to introduce myself to you and passed it
up.” James smiled ruefully.
“Ahh,” the elf blinked, “Miss Granger, the founder of the Ess Pee
Eee Double-you. We has her school picture hanging on the wall in our
rooms, sir. We’re very indebted to Miss Hermione Granger. She’s the
reason we has a coalition agreement with the school, making certain only
elves do elf work, you see. The master of our guild, Dufferwunkin, has a
term for it. He calls it jobsek-yurready. He says jobsek-yerready is very
important for us elves.”
“Jobsek…” James squinted. “You mean job security? I don’t think
that’s quite what Aunt Hermione had in mind when she started SPEW.”
“Well, we doesn’t wish to become freed, sir,” the elf said, wagging
his head with slow emphasis. “Especially now that the Vow of Secrecy is
weakened. Well-meaning witches and wizards speak of freeing all the
house elves now, even outlawing our service. They say it will look bad to
the Muggles, should the two worlds merge.”
James was not a morning thinker under the best of circumstances.
He closed his eyes and rubbed them with a thumb and forefinger. “Like,
the Muggles will think you’re slaves or something? But, like, aren’t you

basically slaves?”
Piggen stood up as straight as he could and squared his shoulders.
“Piggen is in service to his masters, Master Potter, sir. Service is not
slavery.”
“So you get paid, then?”
The elf’s eyes bulged so hard that they looked as if they might pop
out and roll across the floor like grapefruit-sized marbles. “Payment, sir!
No elf is ever paid, sir! It wouldn’t be proper to take payment from one’s
master for service rendered!”
“But you can’t just quit, either,” James went on, frowning at the elf.
“Can you?”
The elf seemed distressed and baffled by the concept. “I suppose,
er, begging your pardon, sir, that such a thing would be technically
possible. At least, here at Hogwarts. But…” He blinked rapidly, glancing
around the dim room as if for help. The rest of the beds were filled with
faintly snoring Gryffindors.
James shrugged, too bleary to press the issue. “Sounds like slavery
to me, no matter how you slice it. But if it makes you happy.”
“Oh, happiness doesn’t come into it, Master Potter, sir,” the elf said
with a relieved sigh, as if content to put an uncomfortable subject behind
him. “We elves don’t have any truck with things like happiness, sir.
Happiness is the mortal enemy of jobsek-yerready.”
James knew he should abandon the conversation while he was still
on moderately level footing, but couldn’t help blinking curiously at the elf
again. “What do you mean, happiness is your mortal enemy?”
The elf looked around again, as if worried about being overheard.
When he returned his gaze to James, he couldn’t quite look him in the eye.
Nervously, he kneaded the knot of his napkin toga with his hands. “There’s
another picture we have hanging on the wall of our rooms,” he said,
lowering his voice to a whisper so thin and high that it was almost
inaudible. “Another house elf, by the name of Dobbyfoggynpuddleneff.”
James pushed himself back up to a seated position on his bed. “You
mean… Dobby? The house elf my dad knew?”
“Dobby was happy,” Piggen nodded gravely, meeting James’ eyes
again. “He made friends with Harry Potter. And then, Dobby was killed.
He was killed outside of service, with no master or mistress. His head was
placed on no one’s wall with the heads of those who came before and after.

Dobby died a free elf.” He said this last with a hand cupped around his
mouth, as if he was repeating the most offensive swear word imaginable.
“And that,” James said as realization dawned on him, “is why you
don’t want me to introduce myself to you.”
Piggen looked miserably uncomfortable. “Begging your pardon,
please, Master Potter, sir. Piggen doesn’t wish to be free. He doesn’t wish
to be happy. He doesn’t wish to be master’s friend, sir, and no offense
meant. He just wishes to do his duties and keep his jobsek-yerready.”
James shrugged wearily. “OK, Piggen. We’re not friends. I’ll
pretend I don’t even know your name.”
The elf’s face broke into a grin of abject relief. “Oh, thank you
Master Potter, sir. And I’ll be out of your way in just a jiffy.” He turned
back to the stove, closed the door with practiced care, and then scampered
away into the shadows toward the bathroom, making no sound whatsoever
in the dawn stillness.
Scorpius rolled over, gave an uncharacteristically undignified groan,
and lifted his head, squinting in James’ general direction. In a muzzy voice,
he asked, “Who are you talking to?”
“Nobody, it turns out,” James answered, swinging his feet to the
floor. “Go back to sleep.”
“If it’s Cedric,” Scorpius murmured, letting his head drop back into
his pillow, “tell him to go back to Hufflepuff. S’too early for class…” His
voice trailed away into incoherence.
James decided to get up and be early to breakfast for once.
That Friday, the Gryffindor Quidditch team faced off against
Slytherin for the first time that season. James stoically took his position
high over the field, his goggles strapped over his spectacles against the
steadily falling snow, the world a seamless tableaux of white all around.
The roar of the grandstands was interrupted only by the voice of Josephina
Bartlett, who was calling the match from the announcer's booth, clearly
enjoying the amplification of her own words far too much.
"An important contest is today's event," she said, pausing to allow
her words to echo around the grandstands, "as statistically, the team to win
their first match has a seventy-seven percent chance of defeating that same
team, should they appear together in the final tournament. Much rides on
this performance for both teams, in particular on the new players in key
positions, such as Mr. James Potter, who will be facing off against his own

brother as Seekers for their respective teams."
The roar of the grandstands increased to a fever pitch at this
announcement. James knew he should feel abashed by such attention, and
yet he secretly relished it. He'd been looking forward to this matchup for
years, ever since Albus had been named Seeker for the Slytherin team. He
was deeply committed to beating his younger brother and bringing home an
important win for Gryffindor, and his assurance that he could do so was
bolstered by the confidence that the team seemed to show on his behalf.
"We've got this!" Graham called through the snow, swooping into
position. "Go crimson and gold!"
"Go Gryffindor!" Deirdre shouted in response, rallying the rest of
the team into whoops and cheers.
James gripped his broom tightly, wearing the fingerless gauntlets
he'd first worn three years earlier when he'd played Clutchcudgel at Alma
Aleron, eventually accompanying team Bigfoot to their first win in
decades. He looked wistfully at the slot on the right wrist, especially sewn
into the gauntlet to store his wand. No game magic allowed in Quidditch,
he mourned, although he had successfully brought it to the Night League,
where Julian Jackson had proven herself right about quickly adapting and
mastering the Clutchcudgel spells. All of the teams had borrowed and
duplicated James' old Clutchcudgel rulebook, and subsequently made very
good use of Gravity Wells, Bonefuse hexes, Knucklers, Inertia Enhancers,
and many others that even James had not yet fully mastered.
The slot on his gauntlet was empty now, however. No wands were
allowed on the Quidditch pitch. James would have to defeat his brother
using plain old grit, finesse, and determination.
Fortunately, as match official Cabe Ridcully blew his whistle and
released the game balls, James was fairly brimming with grit and
determination. He launched into motion, swooping immediately in pursuit
of the snitch, even as it flashed its golden wings and flitted into the pall of
densely falling snow, vanishing from sight.
It turned out to be a very long match, lasting well past nightfall.
Josephina's voice grew hoarse as the evening progressed, with Slytherin
maintaining a steadily growing, even daunting, lead over Gryffindor
throughout. James began to dread the shrill ding of the scoreboard as more
points accumulated, marked by green fireworks from the enchanted sign.
Slushy snow caked James' hair, freezing it to stiff fronds that

slapped and battered his skull as he flew. His jersey and cape, like the rest
of the players', was sodden with a mixture of melted snow and cold sweat,
weighing him down as he slewed through the melee, dodging Bludgers that
hurled out of the dark like malevolent comets, whistling dully as they
whickered past. All around, the crowd had reached that point of stubborn
weariness that reduced their cheers to a dull, constant rumble, strung out
between a sturdy commitment to their team's victory, and the increasing
desire for the match to be over so they could all return to the warmth and
light of the castle.
James was wiping the slush from his goggles for what felt like the
millionth time when a sudden roar lifted from the crowd. There was no
ding from the scoreboard, no flash and pop of celebratory fireworks, which
meant the roar could only mean one thing: the snitch had been seen. And if
the crowd had seen it, that meant that Albus probably had as well.
James flung his gaze around the pitch desperately and finally found
it: a streak of fluttering gold, zigging and zagging through the players.
Albus was closing in on it already, his hand outstretched, banking and
swooping in pursuit.
James threw himself low over his broom and it shot forward,
dipping toward the golden streak as it angled nearer.
The crowd was a seamless blare now. As James arced to intercept
the snitch, he caught a glimpse of the scoreboard. Gryffindor was currently
down by a score of twenty-eight to one hundred sixty-two. If James failed
to capture the snitch during this sighting, even if Albus managed to miss it,
the Slytherins would soon have enough points to win the match no matter
who eventually caught it.
As James neared the whizzing golden ball, he watched it swoop
directly over Deirdre's shoulder. She watched it go past, clearly resisting
the urge to catch it herself, which would, of course, only result in a penalty.
She whipped her gaze back to James as he swooped after it, reaching
forward with his right hand.
Voices called in passing, some shouting him back or vying to
distract him, others urging him on. James heard none of them, merely
strained forward, dodging Bludgers that threatened to bash him from his
broom, piloting as if through a tunnel of snowy white streaks.
Albus was ahead of James still. His cloak flapped and snapped
behind him, flinging damp mist into James' face. The snitch dipped,

however, and James saw it an instant before Albus corrected. James' broom
dropped away beneath him at his urging, cutting beneath Albus and
catching up to the golden ball. James reached, stretching so hard that his
arm felt it would pop right out of its socket. His fingers brushed the snitch's
buzzing wings. He grinned with determination, then snapped his hand
closed onto...
...empty air!
Another hand had swept across his view from above, engulfing the
snitch in an instant and sweeping away again, taking the golden ball with it.
James boggled at the empty darkness where the snitch had been, still
reaching uselessly with his fisted right hand, then twisted his head to look
up.
Albus was hanging upside down beneath his broom, dangling from
his folded knees with his right arm fully extended, grasping the golden
snitch just above James' head. He met James' gaze through his own slushstreaked goggles and grinned, shrugging his upside-down shoulders down
at his brother.
The crowd erupted into shocked—and perhaps even slightly
relieved—applause. The match was over. Josephina Bartlett breathlessly
announced the final score, but James deliberately tuned her out, swooping
down to the field and not even dismounting, merely ducking his head and
flying straight into the open doors of the locker area beneath the Gryffindor
grandstand. His face was hot with mingled rage and embarrassment. He
had no wish to speak to anyone or endure the cheering that even now still
echoed from the pitch, celebrating Albus' amazing capture.
By the time James had stripped out of his wet gauntlets and halffrozen cape, the rest of the team came trudging along the tunnel, dragging
their brooms, their heads down. Few spoke at all. None made eye contact
with each other. James plopped onto a bench to pry off his wet shoes, the
laces stiff with ice. He changed into a dry pair of trainers, tossed his
Quidditch shoes into the bottom of his locker, and tugged his coat from a
hook inside the door.
He was just turning to leave when he saw Lily near her own locker,
disconsolately shaking frozen clots of snow from her pony tail. He walked
over to her, straddled the bench that ran between the row of wooden
lockers, and plopped down. He had some vague idea of walking back with
the team, finding some nominal solace in their silent camaraderie. It had

been a bad loss—there was simply no escaping that fact—but at least they
could suffer it together.
Lily plopped next to him and grunted as she pried her own shoes
off. The second one kicked from her foot and struck her locker, knocking
its door shut with a bang. She glared at it, breathing angry chugs through
her nose.
“You might have seen that coming, if you’d been paying any
attention over the past few years,” she said quietly, still gazing at her closed
locker door.
James frowned, replaying her words in his head. “What do you
mean, if I’d ‘been paying any attention’?”
She turned to him but kept her voice low. “Albus loves those stupid
aerial acrobatics. He’s always looking for reasons to try out some
harebrained maneuver, like that thing he did tonight when he stole the
snitch right from under your nose. You might have seen it coming, is all.”
“Oh, so you’re going to pin this whole thing on me, are you?” James
hissed, pushing himself upright. “And what about when Beetlebrick and
Dvorek were drilling home goals all match long, right under your nose?
Are you going to tell me that was my fault too?”
“I knocked more away than made it through!” Lily snapped,
stripping off her gloves and throwing them violently to the floor. “It was
snowing buckets out there, in case you didn’t notice. I could barely see the
bloody Quaffle before it was too close to catch!”
“That didn’t seem to bother Lamia Lorelei at the other end of the
pitch, did it?” James declared, heaving himself to his feet and pointing in
the general direction of the Slytherin goal rings. “She was like a brick wall
out there!”
“Well none of it would have mattered if you’d done your duty and
caught the snitch in time!” Lily shouted, giving James a shove in the chest.
“I was busy all night! You had one job, and you blew it, just because you
fell for some stupid stunt your own brother’s been dying to pull for
months!”
James felt like an icicle had been stabbed straight through his chest.
He took a step back from Lily’s furious gaze, his mouth open in surprise
and dismay.
“Now hold on, both of you,” Graham said with weary alarm,
moving to get between Lily and James, but James smacked his placating

hand away. He turned, grabbed his broom, and stalked away from the
locker area, into the darkness of the tunnel, smarting from Lily’s words,
feeling betrayed and furious at his brother, and most of all cursing himself
as a complete failure.
Snow was still falling in steady, skirling clouds over the pitch,
which was now criss-crossed with footprints. The grandstands were mostly
empty as the last spectators trickled away. James moved to follow them,
keeping his head down.
“James,” a girl’s voice called, the sound muffled by the falling
snow. For a moment he thought it was Lily coming to apologize and his
heart quickened, unsure if he would let her beg forgiveness, or scorn her
and make her stew for a while. It was not Lily, however. He stopped and
glanced back to see Millie plodding quickly toward him through the
deepening drifts. She was bundled in her coat and Hufflepuff scarf with a
fetching woolen hat on her blonde hair, now heavily dusted with white, but
she carried a Gryffindor pennant in her right hand, drooped in defeat.
She stopped near him, her breath puffing in thick white clouds.
“I’m so sorry,” she said simply.
For a moment, he thought she had somehow divined what had
happened with Lily in the locker area. The look of commiseration on her
face was so heartfelt and unabashed that, for a fleeting second, it almost
made him want to cry. He drew a deep, bracing breath instead and looked
up at the mostly empty grandstands. “It was a rough match. I should have
seen the snitch sooner. Albus beat me to it. He was the better player
tonight.”
Millie nodded soberly at James, her lips pressed into a thin line, and
then drew a deep breath and said, “That’s complete skrewt dooey.”
James glanced back at Millie again, frowning. “Excuse me?”
“I say it’s skrewt dooey, top to bottom. You were by far the better
flyer out there. You had Albus beat square. He won by being a numpty
showoff, not by being a better player.”
“He did, didn’t he?” James suddenly seethed, smacking a fist into
his open hand. “I completely had him beat! He didn’t see when the snitch
changed direction, but I did! I cut him off!”
“He resorted to sloppy desperation tactics and got lucky,” Millie
agreed emphatically. “He won’t pull that off again. That sort of thing only
works once.”

James shook his head at the injustice of it. “I wish you’d been down
in the locker room with me and the rest of the team,” he said with a roll of
his eyes.
“Why?” Millie asked, threading an arm through James’ as they
turned and trudged toward the castle together. “Don’t tell me they blamed
you for what happened?”
James blew out a deep sigh. “Not most of them. Just… my
sister…”
Millie chose to remain silent on that detail, which James thought
was probably a very wise move on her part. They walked in silence toward
the warm glow of the castle, which shone from its myriad windows onto the
falling curtain of snow and the white blanket that was the grounds. James
could just make out Hagrid’s hut far to the right, shouldered up against the
fringe of the forest. The roof was cloaked with snow. A grey ribbon of
smoke arose from the crooked fieldstone chimney. The scent of burning
wood was an ode to warmth in the crisp air.
“I was wondering,” Millie said, snuggling a little closer to James as
they turned toward the open courtyard, “if maybe you’d like to come to
Canterbury for the holidays with me this year?”
James stopped in the lantern light of the main entrance, turning to
look aside at Millie, surprised at her offer.
She went on before he could answer, “I already asked my mum and
dad and they were totally keen on the idea. Honestly, I think they’re more
excited about it than I am. I just thought…” She shrugged a little and
looked out over the dark courtyard, “maybe you’d like to meet my parents,
and brother and sister. I mean… I'm sure you have your own holiday
traditions and things that you’re looking forward to. So maybe this is
absolutely the last thing you expected. And my timing is probably perfectly
horrid, now that I think of it. Soooo… maybe we should just pretend I
didn’t even—”
“I’d love to, Millie,” James interrupted. He very much enjoyed the
look of surprised delight that crossed her face, bringing her eyes
immediately back to his.
“Really? Seriously?”
He shrugged and nodded, glancing back toward the unseen darkness
of the Quidditch pitch. “I’d love to meet your family. And I love
Christmas in the city. It’d be nice for a change, since we usually have

Christmas at the Burrow, out in the middle of nowhere.”
Millie’s enthusiasm was seamless. She squeezed James’ arm
ecstatically and kissed him briefly on the lips. “Oh, but I love Christmas in
the country! We should go to your family’s next year! Promise you’ll
invite me! Even if we aren’t… well… I don’t want to assume…”
Her cheeks reddened, but James was feeling very cavalier in the
wake of the evening’s disappointments. “Make all the assumptions you
want. Sure, I’ll invite you next year. But you have to keep in mind that
Headmaster Merlin is part owner of the Burrow and spends his summers
and holidays there. That means when we go home for Christmas, even next
year when we're graduated, school sort of comes with.”
“I’ll love it no matter what,” Millie enthused, dragging James
onward again, up the steps to the main entrance. “I’ll send an owl to mum
and dad tonight telling them to expect us both. Oh, we’ll have simply a
grand time! But do pack your dress robes! It’s traditional for the Christmas
Eve dinner. And we attend a play every year, too, at the Theatre
d’Extraordinaire! This year it’s the Triumvirate, isn’t that just perfect?
And, oh! My grandmother Eunice will be there, too. She takes some
getting used to. I’ll tell you all about her on the way…”
As they made their way into the Entrance Hall, James allowed
Millie to fill the air with excitement and planning, warnings of dodgy
relatives and promises of amazing sights and experiences. Filch watched
them go past with a malevolent glare, leaning on a mop, pausing in his
futile attempt to sop up the slush that had accumulated in the wake of the
evening’s match. As Millie went on, James wondered if perhaps he’d
agreed a bit too easily. He’d meant to break up with Millie over the
holiday, not deepen their relationship with a visit to meet her parents. A
dull, sinking feeling darkened his already dark mood, but he pushed it
away. At least going to the city with Millie meant not having to spend the
holiday with his showoff brother and blaming sister. At the mere
remembrance of them, his resolve firmed and he determined to send a note
to his own mum that night as well, announcing his new plan.
Millie was so caught up in her excitement about the upcoming
holiday that she accompanied James all the way to the portrait of the Fat
Lady, only then remembering herself. “Oh, I passed my own corridor,
didn’t I?” she laughed, and then kissed James again, impetuously. “We’ll
have a grand time. You’ll simply love it. I can’t wait!” She gripped his

hand and squeaked with delight and James was once again both gratified
and slightly worried by her enthusiasm.
A moment later, she turned and skipped back the way they’d come,
humming Christmas carols happily to herself.
“Well,” the Fat Lady indulged with a knowing smile. “It looks to
me like somebody is in love…”
James was still watching Millie as she turned and capered cheerily
down the stairs. “That’s what I’m afraid of,” he muttered with a sigh.

James half hoped that his mum would forbid the trip to Canterbury
over the holidays, although he knew it was unlikely. She was a born
matchmaker, just like his sister, and would likely adore the idea of James
partaking in some innocent romance over the break. Further, as hard as it
was for her, James knew that his mum was making a conscious effort to
respect her nearly of-age son, and honour his choices.
Thus, it was no great surprise when Nobby returned with her
message later the following week, shaking snow from his wings as he
landed on the breakfast table. James withdrew the message from the owl’s
leg while Nobby himself sniffed and pecked at the remains of a kipper,
clearly hungry from his morning’s flight.
The note in his mother’s handwriting was brief but surprisingly
illuminating.
Dear James,
We’ll miss you, but I’m certain you will have a
lovely time. Your father and I are both familiar with
Millie’s family, as Mr. V was Ministry ambassador to the
magical government in Norway for several years and Mrs. V
is very charitable in central London with both her money

and time. Since Albus is bringing his own New Friend
home for the holiday, your room will likely be in use
anyway. We will all send your gifts to you at the school—
look for Kreacher before you leave—but don’t dare make a
habit of being away from us for future holidays!
I miss you very much, as does your father, who sends
his love and says to be sure not to let things get TOO
romantic during the break, for what that’s worth. I
reminded him that he married his school sweetheart and
things turned out just aces for him.
Grandma Weasley sends her love as well. Oh, and
she knows the Countess Eunice Vandergriff from her own
days at Hogwarts and says to watch out for her, apparently
because ‘the woman hasn’t washed a cauldron or folded a
pair of socks in her entire blessed life’.
“What’s your dad mean about not getting too romantic with Millie?”
Graham asked with a grin, reading over James’ shoulder. James jerked the
letter away, hastily refolding it.
“It means he doesn’t want James getting too handsy with any of the
Hufflepuppet Pals while away from school supervision,” Deirdre said
wisely, turning to glance back at the Hufflepuff table where Millie sat with
a group of her friends.
“You’re all missing the main point,” Rose said, leaning back from
the table as Nobby unfurled his wings with a puff of cold air and launched
toward the upper windows again. “Apparently Albus is bringing ‘a new
friend’ home with him for the holidays.”
Scorpius pointed his chin toward the end of their own table, where
Chance Jackson and her friends giggled and conspired in the shadow of the
Great Hall Christmas tree. “Indeed, I know at least one Gryffindor who
wasn’t too broken up about last week’s big loss to Slytherin. Could that be
little Albus’ guest?”
“Got it in one, I wager,” Rose said, vaguely disgusted. “He and
Chance have become quite the little item. But still, letting romance come
before team…” She shook her head and wrinkled her nose.
“Where’s Hagrid?” James asked, attempting to change the subject as
he stuffed his mum’s letter into his knapsack. “We have Care of Magical

Creatures this afternoon, right?”
Scorpius shrugged. “Maybe he finally got eaten by one of the
monsters he keeps out in that barn of his. All I hear is ‘class dismissed’.”
Rose jabbed Scorpius sharply with her elbow. “The menagerie is
mostly empty now, as you well know. The Ministry made him get rid of
most of his creatures, just in case any more Muggles come sniffing around
the grounds. Ridiculous, of course. Merlin’s fortified the secrecy charms
all around. But still, poor Hagrid’s had to send most of his best beasts to
some magical preserve in Australia.”
“Wait a minute,” Deirdre said, leaning back and staring up at the
teacher’s table. “He’s up there after all. Just… well that’s why we didn’t
recognize him at first.”
“He’s…” James furrowed his brow, craning to look up at the dais.
“Is he… reading?”
Sure enough, the top of the half-giant’s head could just be seen
behind an enormous book, which sat propped upright on the table before
him. The book was bound in frayed green cloth, its edges worn almost
through. There was no title embossed on the spine or cover, merely a large
symbol, tarnished black and illegible.
“I have to say,” Graham said with genuine surprise, “I wasn’t one
hundred percent certain that Hagrid could read.”
“Of course he can read,” Rose said tersely, giving Graham a
reproachful look. “He reads more than you do, and not just Quidditch
scores and Chocolate Frog cards, at that.”
Still, James thought, Graham was right that the sight of Hagrid with
his prodigious nose buried in an even more prodigious book was a curious
sight indeed, especially at the head table during breakfast. He decided to
ask Hagrid about it during that afternoon’s class.
In that endeavor, however, James was disappointed. Just as Ancient
Runes was concluding and Professor Votary was announcing the evening’s
homework, a message arrived that Care of Magical Creatures was
cancelled. The classroom broke into a babble of relief and even a few
cheers, until Votary sternly called everyone to attention again.
“You are all still summoned to the South Barn to assist in cleaning
duties,” he declared, peering over his spectacles at the note in his hand.
“Mr. Filch will be there to supervise.”
The elation of the room immediately melted to dour grumbling.

Ralph looked dolefully past James to the classroom windows, where snow
drifted brightly against a dour grey sky.
“And here I thought we were avoiding a tramp out into the tundra,”
he sighed.
“Buck up, Ralph,” offered Rose, buckling her bag and slinging it
over her shoulder. “Maybe Filch will deputize you as junior muckraker,
first order.”
“Har har,” Ralph grumped.
The threesome followed the rest of the class out into the chill of the
day, hunching their shoulders against the steady wind and blowing, stinging
wraiths of snow. Hagrid’s hut was barely a mound of drifts, with only one
window and the chimney visible, its smoke tattering in the wind.
“We should go check on Hagrid after class,” Rose called into the
wind, speaking James’ thoughts. He nodded in agreement. Ralph would
come along as much for one of Hagrid’s mugs of hot tea and huge
misshapen gingerbread cookies as for the visit, but he, James knew, was
also curious about whatever was occupying their old friend.
The next hour was a smelly and unhappy affair, partly because the
stalls and cages of the barn represented a daunting duty under any
circumstance, and partly because Argus Filch enjoyed making every task as
painstakingly fussy and difficult as possible. He ambled from corner to
corner, stall to stall, clucking his tongue in righteous indignation at the
unsatisfactory progress he encountered at every turn. He did little work
himself, apart from when he yanked a broom or pitchfork from a students’
hand to impatiently show how it was properly used, clearly wishing to use
the instrument as a rod of punishment instead.
James endured one such demonstration, accepting the brush back
from the caretaker with a tight frown and watching Filch’s back as he
stumped away, fuming gleefully.
“It’s not like anybody’s going to be eating out of this thing,” he
muttered, reaching inside one of the cages and resuming the awkward task
of scrubbing its interior.
“Well,” Ralph said, grunting with his own arm crooked into a cage,
scrubbing its mesh ceiling, “something will probably end up eating out of it,
eh?”
“Wargles don’t count,” James replied. “They lick their own
nethers. I don’t think they give a care about ‘the excrement tarred into the

crevices’.”
Ralph merely shrugged as much as his awkward posture allowed.
James knew that Ralph, as Head Boy, felt a constant pressure not to criticize
even the most odious of the Hogwarts staff. James felt no such pressure, of
course, and found Ralph’s clumsy discretion grating, at best.
By the time they finished and stepped back outside, weary and
smelling of moldy hay and innumerable flavors of beast dung, the sky had
grown dark and leaden, whether with early evening or another impending
snowfall no one could tell. The tracks of their earlier footprints were
already half consumed by the blowing snow, which shone slate blue in the
gloom. Hagrid’s hut, however, glowed from its single visible window with
buttery lamplight and the flicker of the hearth. They angled toward it, not
attempting to speak over the wind that buffeted across the drifts, blasting
them with ice crystals.
The door of Hagrid’s hut creaked swiftly open even before they
reached it, letting out a push of deliciously warm air and firelight. Hagrid
stood framed in the door, half lit by the interior behind him, half by the blue
evening gloom, his breath pluming huge clouds into the wind.
“S’about time yeh three showed up at my door,” he called out with
such sudden impatience that James nearly stopped in his tracks. “What yeh
waitin’ for? No sense pretendin’ I didn’t know yeh was gonna come out
and check on dim ol’ Hagrid, with his silly umbreller wand and hardly
enough wits t’ read a simple letter. Come in, come in…”
He stepped back from the door and waved a slab-like hand into the
warm clutter of his hut. James shrugged and tromped inside, doing his best
to shake the snow from his shoes onto the mat. Ralph and Rose crammed
in behind him, shrugging out of their coats and shaking snowflakes from
their hair. Hagrid swung the door shut with a firm slam and shot the bolt
before stumping back across the small living space and standing near his
table.
The interior of Hagrid’s hut hadn’t changed much over the years. It
was still a comfortable shamble of miss-matched, oversized furniture, bare
wooden floors, and dusty rafters hung with all manner of baskets, nets, and
traps. Trife, Hagrid’s old bullmastiff dog, twined happily around the three
students, snuffling their hands with his wet nose and nearly knocking them
over with his excited greeting. The hearth roared, making the room almost
uncomfortably hot, so that James immediately flung his coat onto a nearby

bureau, which was already weighed down with nested pots and cauldrons.
Hagrid merely glanced back and forth from the new arrivals to the huge
green book open on the table, propped before a lantern. A mostly empty
iron tankard of butterbeer sat next to it, and James could tell that it hadn’t
been Hagrid’s first of the evening.
Rose spoke for all of them when she asked, “Are you all right,
Hagrid?”
“Oh, Rosie,” Hagrid cried, raising both of his hands to his face with
such a sudden shift of mood that James was again taken aback. Hagrid
folded backwards onto one of his kitchen chairs, which chalked a few
inches backwards in alarm. “Oh, Rosie! Yeh remind me so much o’ yer
mum. That’s ‘ow I knew yeh three would come. Cuz they would’a. Ron
and Hermione and Harry. They did, yeh know. They came t’ see me back
when Norberta was just a wee egg, not even ‘atched. Did I ever tell yeh
that story?”
“Only about a thousand times,” James said, not unkindly, moving to
join Hagrid at the table. The normal clutter of wooden plates, cheese rinds,
and tea mugs had been pushed back in an untidy jumble by the enormous,
musty-smelling book. “What is all this, Hagrid?”
“It’s a letter from Grawpie, s’what it is!” Hagrid sniffed hugely, half
embarrassed, half exasperated, and lifted the front cover of the green book
momentarily, revealing a huge, heavy parchment unrolled beneath it. “An’
I can barely read the blasted thing! I see the symbols fer dragon, which can
only mean Norberta. And a few other symbols that are worryin', t’ say th’
least. But th’ rest is complete gibb’rish to me. I was never partic’ly good at
Giantish, and it’s been so many years, I’m nearly useless. Can’t even read a
letter from my own dear brother an’ his byootiful bride!” A fat tear
trembled and ran down the side of Hagrid’s nose. He swiped it away with a
callused thumb.
Ralph shouldered closer to the table and lifted the cover of the green
book again, closing it to reveal the letter beneath. “Can’t be that hard, can
it? I mean, Giantish is a language made up of, like, cave drawings and
stuff. Stick figures and arrows and hands with not enough fingers…”
He paused as he looked down at Grawp’s letter. It wasn’t printed on
parchment at all but an expanse of what appeared to be untanned leather,
thin as a bedsheet, irregularly shaped and curling at the edges. The entire
surface was scrawled with tiny pictograms and symbols, clustered so tightly

as to blend into a nearly seamless mash. James turned his head this way
and that as he leaned over it, trying to make sense of it and failing. The text
of the letter—if text was what it could be called—didn’t run in lines down
the page, but along the top, down the side, then across the bottom. In fact,
the line of symbols followed the uneven edges of the skin, turning upsidedown and running back up the side again, twisting in on itself in dense
concentric circles like a fingerprint, or the rings of a tree stump. James
blinked at it and gave his head a shake, unable to follow the dizzying line of
imagery.
“Right,” Rose said slowly. “I don’t think even a person fluent in
Giantish could just read this letter, Hagrid. Do you have a quill and
parchment ready? We can help decipher it if you like.”
James wasn’t certain that he was quite prepared to spend the rest of
the evening hunkered over a musty-smelling book translating hundreds and
hundreds of tiny hand-scrawled symbols, and the look Ralph shot him
communicated the same. But Hagrid’s response made it impossible to deny
him. He nearly burst into relieved tears and scrambled to make more room
on the table, retrieving a stack of damp parchment from a nearby drawer.
“Oh, Rosie, Ralph, James, that’d be just golden o’ yeh! I was
reachin’ th’ end o’ my wits! And I know many would say that wa’an’t a
long trek, but still. I’ll make tea! And thanks to yeh ever so much! Ever so
much!”
James sighed to himself, unable to keep the smile from his face.
Ralph settled onto Hagrid’s abandoned chair as the half-giant bustled into
his tiny kitchen.
“Well,” he said, shaking his head wryly. “It’s not like I had any
plans for the rest of the year.”
“Oh tosh,” Rose said, climbing onto another chair, kneeling on it to
lean over the table. She peered closely at the huge green book, which
James could now see was a dictionary of giant symbology, with translations
in English. “Giantish has no grammar, no spelling, no pronunciation.
That’s one of the beauties of the language. It’s made entirely of pictograms,
translatable to any other tongue. Once we get started and learn some of the
basic recurring imagery, everything should start falling easily into place.”
“I don’t know what’s more daunting,” James sighed, tugging the
huge sheepskin letter out from under the book and turning it this way and
that, “how hard Hagrid makes it seem, or how easy you do.”

Hagrid made tea, serving it in his usual collection of chipped cups
and mugs, and provided a platter of iced cookies in the shapes of
hippogriffs, Christmas trees, and, inexplicably, Yeti footprints. Ralph
transcribed what Rose and James translated, leaving crumbs on the
sheepskin as they turned it round and round, following the line of symbols
as it spiraled toward the centre of Grawp’s letter.
It became evident as they worked that the letter had been a group
effort, written not only by Grawp, but also Prechka, his wife, and several
other members of their mountain tribe, up to and including their local king.
James began to recognize the drawing styles of each hand, simply by
looking at the weight of the strokes, the straightness of the lines, and the
relative artistic merits of the symbols. As they worked, he learned via Rose
that the giants’ “ink” was a mixture of blood, tar, vegetable juice, and red
clay. They painted the symbols with brushes made of bicorn eyelashes.
Ralph’s prediction that translating the letter would take the rest of
the year turned out to be inaccurate, although James had to admit as the
night wore on that it certainly felt like it was taking months rather than
hours. Outside the hut’s square windows, the night turned inky black and
snow indeed began to fall again. The wind gusted, rattling the panes and
howling around the chimney, but the foursome stayed warm and busy,
drinking tea until they could drink no more, dining on cheese, crusty bread
with butter and peppery olive oil, cucumber slices, tiny blood sausage links,
and more iced cookies for dessert. Tempers grew thin, and occasionally
James and Rose would argue about the meanings of certain pictograms,
especially when Grawp was their author, since his Giantish penmanship, as
it were, was the most haphazard of all.
“It’s clearly a sun rising,” James insisted, stabbing at the drawing
with a sausage-greasy finger.
“It’s King Kilroy looking over a mountain!” Rose argued
impatiently. “See the hair!?”
“Those are sunbeams!”
“You’re as blind as a cave nargle! King Kilroy is the symbol for
authority! It makes sense in context!”
“The rising sun represents the future,” James persisted doggedly.
“That makes more sense in context!”
Ralph, as usual, broke the stalemate. “Let’s just call it ‘authority in
the future’ and move on, shall we? My bum’s going to sleep.”

It was nearly midnight by the time they finished the transcription.
Finally, weary but gratified and curious, they retired to the chair and sofa
before the fire to read the letter in its entirety. Hagrid stoked the coals to a
fierce red glow, crackling and bursting with sparks, and eased into the huge
easy chair, his stocking feet crossed on the rug, one big toe poking through
a frayed hole. Trife turned three circles next to Hagrid’s knees and lay
down with a contented snuffle.
James and Rose plopped onto the sprung sofa while Ralph remained
standing as if he was about to give a presentation in class.
He began to recite the transcription, which, while written in his own
handwriting, was still rather a task. As Rose had pointed out, Giantish is a
language with no grammar or structure, leaving Ralph to fill in the blanks
between ideas and concepts as he went.
“Grawp, Prechka, and the rest of the tribe send greetings and… the
mountain-sized, ten-headed manticore of prosperity.”
“Ah, that’s a traditional giant’s greetin’, that is,” Hagrid nodded, his
eyes half-lidded with happy anticipation. “Means riches and meat for
endless seasons. Go on, go on…”
Ralph nodded uncertainly. “Time is hard as the year gets old. The
future is foggy and full of danger. But smaller worries first. Dragon…”
Ralph paused and looked up. “We’re sure he means Norberta here, right?”
“No other dragons in the mountain tribes,” Hagrid said. “He’s got
to mean good old Norberta. She was their weddin’ gift, if yeh recall. I’d
loved t’ have kept ‘er myself, but it’s nice knowing she’s still in th’ family,
at least.”
Ralph nodded and frowned back down at the letter. “Norberta
smells a different dragon on the wind. She is excited and hard to control.
Her desire for the male dragon of her kind makes her disobey the command
of the giants who love and keep her. She leaves her cave home to go find
the male dragon, but Grawp and Prechka, with the help of the tribe, even
the king, bring her back. Soon, she will go far enough and fast enough that
they won’t catch her in time. She goes always south and east, bypassing the
small man places, heading toward the Sea of Light.”
James asked, “Who are the small men?”
“All men are small compared to giants, silly,” Rose said. “But that’s
not what it means. ‘Small man places’ means human villages. Norberta is
going around little towns and such to get to the male dragon she smells.”

“Oh,” James said, his brow furrowed. “So what’s the Sea of Light?”
Hagrid answered in a thoughtful voice, “That’s the big man place.
London town itself. Most giants have never been there, and won’t ever go,
not even to bring back Norberta. It’s a mythic, frightenin’ place in their
lore. To them, it’s just a huge ocean of lights shining up on the nighttime
clouds.”
Ralph grimaced in confusion. “But how could Norberta be smelling
a male dragon from that far away?”
“Gor’,” Hagrid said, sitting up slightly in his easy chair. “We
covered that two years ago in class, din’t we? Dragon pheromones are th’
strongest in th’ whole animal world, so powerful an’ deep that humans can’t
even smell ‘em. Same way our ears can’t hear a dog whistle. Dragons are
known t’ seek each other over hunnerts of miles, across leagues of seas. It’s
‘ow they find love and make baby dragons.”
“Oh, yeah. I remember that,” Ralph lied, scratching his head. “But
there can’t be a male dragon in London, of all places, can there?”
James’ eyes suddenly widened as a memory struck him.
“Montague Python!” he said, grabbing the arm of the couch as he
sat up straight. “Deirdre told me about him on the way up to the school at
the start of term! Her parents took her to see a magical traveling circus and
there was a male dragon in the show. She said they’d be setting up in
Diagon Alley soon enough. It must be Montague that Norberta smells.”
“Aye,” Hagrid said sadly. “Poor girl’s just missing dragonish
comp’ny. She wants what any living thing wants. To love and be loved
back. Why, her poor huge heart must be breakin’ from bein’ able t’ smell
another dragon and not being allowed to get to ‘im.”
After a moment of ruminating silence, Rose prodded, “Go on,
Ralph.”
Ralph nodded and continued, reading studiously. “They say they
will all try to keep Norberta safe. But the tribe is busy with bigger worries.
The human places reach out to the giant places more all the time. Unrest
fills the air as men can be seen crossing boundaries never before crossed.
Sometimes the men come to hunt. Sometimes to explore. Deeper and
further they travel, often in their roaring metal beasts. Er, he must mean
trucks and off-road vehicles, I assume,” Ralph shrugged without looking
up. “Some tribes prepare for war with the men, and plan to fight to keep
their place. Grawp and Prechka’s tribe will not fight against the humans,

though. The king of their tribe says they will go away, find new mountains
farther north, beyond the big coasts. But Grawp and Prechka don’t want to
travel to new mountains. They want to come…” Ralph’s face blanched
and his eyes widened. “They want to come here, to Hogwarts. They
believe it’s the safest place. They remember their cave in the Forbidden
Forest, and want to live there again.”
“They can’t be serious,” James said, surprised. “That’s, like,
hundreds of miles away. There’s no such thing as giant trains or planes.
They’d get lost for sure.”
“Nah,” Hagrid said, reaching forward on his chair to poke at the
hearth with the metal tip of his umbrella, flaring the coals to light again.
“Giants is dead smart with directions. Yeh know that. It’s like a sixth sense
they ‘ave. Once they’ve been a place, they can always find their way back
to it again. That’s th’ way they find their ways around the mountains, from
cave t’ cave and peak t’ peak.”
Rose looked from Hagrid to James, her face alarmed. “But that
would have them walking the whole way themselves, through loads of
Muggle villages and towns, right out in the open! They’d be seen for sure!”
“It’ll never ‘appen,” Hagrid said, leaning back into his easy chair
again, wrenching a long creak from its innards. “Grawpie would never take
such a chance. I ‘spect he’s just missing his ol’ home here in the Forbidden
Forest is all, talkin’ about it all wistful like, the way some people talk about
the olden days. Giant language is tricky with concepts like the past. The
real problem is poor Norberta.”
“Hold on a sec,” Ralph said, lowering the finished letter and cocking
his head. “Two giants say they’re planning to waltz across hundreds of
miles of Muggle land to come to Hogwarts, possibly bringing loads of
Muggles following along with them out of pure amazement, and you say
that’s no big deal?”
“I say it’ll never ‘appen,” Hagrid waved a ham-like hand. “Things
may be getting’ tetchy in the mountains, but we’re nowhere near that point
yet. Grawpie’s smarter ‘n that.”
James grimaced and widened his eyes. “I remember Grawp pretty
well myself. Lovable enormous bloke he may be, but ‘smart’ isn’t the first
word that comes to mind.”
“Yer all missin’ the point,” Hagrid said with a huge sigh, staring
glassily into the low fire. James glanced back at the half-giant, who

hiccupped and sniffed deeply. “Poor li’l Norberta’s all alone. She needs
companionship, she does. She’s not tryin’ to be bad. She’s just doin’ what
nature and ‘er own dragonish heart demands of ‘er. We’ve gotta help ‘er,
we do.”
“No, Hagrid,” Rose said, mustering her mother’s firm, implacable
voice. “Hagrid,” she said the professor’s voice again, commanding his
attention. “What are you thinking about doing?”
Hagrid blinked aside at Rose as if snapping out of a deep reverie.
“Hmm? What? Oh, nothin’. Nary a thing. I’m jus’ thinkin’ of poor
Norberta.”
“That’s what we’re worried about, I think,” Ralph sighed.
“Hagrid,” James said, tilting his head at the big man. “We can’t
have Norberta tramping off into London in search of a trained circus
dragon. You know that, right? It’s bad enough thinking about Grawp and
Prechka stomping through Muggle villages on their way to Hogwarts. A
dragon sniffing around London would be completely disastrous.”
“Catastrophic,” Rose agreed meaningfully.
“But,” Hagrid protested, narrowing his eyes. James could almost
see the wheels spinning inside the professor’s shaggy head. “But, she’s got
needs, she does. I’m not sayin’ Grawpie and Prechka should set her loose
to run rampant through th’ city looking for this performin’ dragon. But
maybe there’s a better way. And then, when there was a new dragon egg, I
could ‘atch it myself! Yeh three could help! It’d be jus’ like old times!”
His beetle-black eyes nearly sparked with anticipation.
“No more dragon eggs!” Ralph declared, glancing rapidly from
Rose to James as if for support. “I mean, right? That’s perfectly daft from
every direction!”
“Ah, yer right, yer right,” Hagrid deflated reluctantly. He reached
up and rubbed the back of his neck, still staring into the fire. “But like I
say, maybe there’s a better way. A way that’ll keep Norberta from
gallivantin’ off unsupervised into London while also givin’ ‘er what nature
demands. But I’ll need help. Yeh three would come along, wouldn’ yeh?
After all, yeh’ve come this far already, translatin’ the letter an’ all. Yeh’ve
earned it.”
“You make it sound like it’d be a sort of happy holiday,” Ralph
shook his head wonderingly.
James tried to imagine what Hagrid was planning. “Ralph’s got a

point. This won’t be some half-crazy, potentially dangerous, completely
unworkable scheme that will land us all either in Azkaban or dead, will it?”
“O’ course not,” Hagrid shot him a reproachful look that James
could clearly see through.
Rose shrugged. “I’m in.”
Ralph boggled at her, his eyes wide with betrayed surprise.
“Of course I’m in,” she repeated to him firmly. “And you are, too!
If it keeps Norberta out of the city, then it’s our obligation as citizens of the
magical world.”
Ralph’s eyes bulged even more. “You’re as nutters as he is,” he
pointed at Hagrid. Rose merely shrugged.
“My uncle Charlie works with dragons in Romania,” James
suggested. “I bet if we could somehow get Norberta to him, he’d know
how to introduce her to a real male dragon, not some tamed, performing
giant snake named Montague Python.” He rolled his eyes.
Hagrid was nodding vigorously, leaning forward in his chair again.
“At’s right! Charlie Weasley would know jus’ what to do! All we’d need
to do is get Norberta to ‘im!”
“Oh, that’s all, eh?” Ralph said with mock relief. “All we need to
do is transport a five ton Norwegian Ridgeback across international borders
while keeping her secret from both the Muggle world, who would faint in
droves at the mere sight of her, and the magical authorities, who would
arrest us on sight for transporting an illegal beast and endangering the Vow
of Secrecy.”
Rose shrugged and suppressed a smile. “You make it sound so easy,
Ralph.”
“It’d be one thing if she could fly,” James mused. “One of us could
just ride her. But her wing’s never fully healed, right Hagrid?”
“Over land is the only way,” Hagrid nodded, grimacing at the
thought of the dragon’s handicap. His eyes sharpened as a thought struck
him. “Over land or…”
“Or what?” Ralph clarified skeptically.
“Er, nothin’,” Hagrid said, suddenly pushing to his feet. “Nothin’ at
all. Ferget I said anythin’. For now, it’s late. I should’a sent yeh three back
to yer dormitories hours ago. What kind o’ teacher am I? A ruddy
irresponsible one, t’ keep yeh out like this.” But he was merely babbling.
James could tell that the big man was caught in the unaccustomed grip of an

idea. The mad glint in his eyes was almost comically intent. James halfexpected steam to burst from Hagrid’s ears.
“You won’t do anything stupid without us, will you?” Rose asked,
shrugging into her coat as Hagrid virtually broomed them from the hut.
“Don’t listen to her,” Ralph countered. “Feel free to do all the
stupid things you want without us.”
“G’night, yeh three!” Hagrid bid them, smiling tightly through his
bristly beard. “Straight back to th’ castle with yeh now. No lollygaggin’.”
A moment later, the door boomed shut, closing off the glow of the
hut. The warmth of it still surrounded the three students, but James could
feel it tattering away in the snow-flecked wind.
“Come on,” he shrugged. “He’ll call on us when he needs us.”
Ralph shook his head as they started their tramp toward the wintryfrosted castle. “You make it sound like you’re looking forward to it.”
“You don’t have to come along when the time comes, Ralph,” Rose
said primly.
“You’d think that, wouldn’t you?” Ralph moaned in a terse voice.
“But I know how these things go. I’ll end up getting sucked along anyway,
somehow. I always do. And James will end up needing my wand for some
reason because he lost his or broke it somehow. Or there will be some task
that only I can do because, I don’t know, I’m the right height, or the rest of
you are in mortal danger, or busy battling mythical beasts of terror or
something.”
“And that seriously makes you not want to come?” James grinned.
“It won’t be like that this time,” Rose said firmly as they shuffled
into the courtyard, kicking snowy powder before them. “It’s a simple
enough job. Uncle Charlie will know exactly what to do. All we have to
do is get Norberta to him.”
“Ah, I know all about simple, easy, totally safe jobs with you lot,”
Ralph sighed dourly. “Turns out they never are.”
James didn't say so, but he expected that Ralph was more right than
even Rose was willing to admit.

11. BLACKBRIER QUOIT
No word came from Hagrid before the Christmas holidays, leaving
James free to attend to his packing and planning and general trepidation
about his trip with Millie. He remembered to bring his dress robes and
secretly dreaded having to wear them. He thought about being alone with
Millie outside of school and felt both nervous and feverishly excited about
the prospect. Would they be unsupervised a lot of the time? Or even more
supervised than they were at school? What would her parents and family be
like? Millie had attempted to describe them and warn him of certain
eccentricities, but he hadn't absorbed much of it. The only thing he
understood for certain, based on her descriptions, was that the Vandergriffs
had a much different lifestyle than any James had ever encountered.
Scorpius had summed it up when he had described them as "old magic",
although James had only the vaguest idea of what that meant.
The train ride back to London was typically raucous, the
compartments filled with happy students, the corridors decorated with pine
boughs, colourful enchanted light globes, and foot-long candy canes. The
cart lady's wares consisted entirely of holiday cookies, miniature mincemeat
pies, sugar snowballs, cocoa cockroaches, and pepper-imp snaps. Millie
bought several of everything and distributed them to the crowded
compartment they shared. James accepted a palm-sized mince pie with a

sheepish smile. He barely knew any of the people crammed into the
compartment, most of them being Millie's friends, her fellow Hufflepuffs,
although a few were at least familiar faces from Night Quidditch. For their
part, they seemed to accept James as one of their own, based solely on his
connection to Millie.
She sat next to him, hip to hip, holding hands, bouncing excitedly
with the conversation. Outside the window, the winter sun descended over
pristine white fields, snow-decked forests, and mountains dim and hazy
with distance. The light turned dusky and purple and the shadows grew
long. Eventually, the lanterns of the Hogwarts Express lit themselves with
soft popping sounds, bathing the entire train in golden light, and James
knew that the journey was very nearly over.
A pang of trepidation came over him as he remembered that, with
their arrival at Platform Nine and Three Quarters, the familiar part of the
holiday would be over. Suddenly, he missed the comfortable banality of the
Burrow, the gingerbready smell of his mother's frantic baking and the
warmth of Grandma Weasley's hugs, the homely live spruce Christmas tree
decorated with beloved family ornaments and the bullfrog croaking voice of
Kreacher.
Kreacher, at least, he didn’t have to miss very much. He had just
seen the ancient house elf only the morning before, awaking to his patiently
grave stare and drooping watery eyes as the elf stood on the foot of his bed,
a stack of wrapped presents at his feet.
James had decided that he couldn't open the presents yet, despite
Kreacher's monotone holiday benediction.
"It's not Christmas yet," James had said, yawning and stretching, his
hair still prickling from the shock of waking under the elf's unblinking
glare. "I'll open them when I get back. It'll give me something to look
forward to."
The elf had accepted this with stoic grimness, vanishing shortly
thereafter with a snap of his bony fingers, leaving a scent of pine needles
and peppermint in his wake.
Now, as the train steamed slower and slower, the chug of the engine
dropping from a staccato rhythm to a descending bass drum-beat, with the
dark brick walls and chimneys of the city sweeping past the windows,
James cursed himself for agreeing to go with Millie for the holiday. He
knew now that he had mostly done it just to spite Albus and Lily. But now

he felt that he was only punishing himself, and digging himself into a
deeper hole with Millie, with whom he still intended to break up just as
soon as the moment was right.
If the moment was ever right.
He scanned the crowd of waiting parents and families as the train
slowed, hissed, and shimmy-rattled to a halt. He knew he wouldn't see his
own parents there. It had become tradition for he, Albus, Lily, Rose, and
the rest to travel via Portkey directly to the Burrow. The enchanted
Christmas sweater Portkey had arrived only a few days earlier, addressed to
Albus and Lilly. James had seen it and acted disinterested—had even made
a snide comment about how much fun he'd be having in the city instead.
Albus hadn't cared, but Lily had looked sincerely jealous, and James felt
nastily gratified by that.
The platform milled with people in coats and hats, scarves and
boots, festively dusted with snow and watching bright-eyed as the travelers
began to disembark. James saw Scorpius' parents, Draco and Astoria,
standing in long dark coats near the edge of the crowd, looking just as
severe and haughty as always. Other vaguely familiar faces shone like
moons in the lantern light. As James climbed down onto the cold footpath,
he scanned the crowd for anyone who might be part of Millie's family.
For her own part, Millie made a huge show of saying goodbye to her
friends, hugging them one by one, clasping their hands earnestly, as if she
wouldn't be seeing them again for months or years, rather than mere days.
James tried not to feel impatient and forgotten.
"So which one's your mum or dad?" he finally asked when she
joined him again.
"Oh, mummy and daddy don't meet us at the platform," she said
breezily, smoothing her hair and tugging her yellow gloves onto her hands.
"Ah," James frowned. "So... your grandma Eunace then?"
"Grandmother Eunace!" Millie laughed and shook her head. "Don't
be silly! Grab your bag and come on."
She slung her own bag onto her back and shouldered into the throng,
leaving James to catch up. After a moment, she reached back with one
yellow-gloved hand, found his, and pulled him eagerly onward, threading
through the crowd and eventually out through the brick wall portal into the
Muggle reality of King's Cross station. Still she did not look back but
wended this way and that along the broad concourse, her boot heels

clacking over the sound of recorded Christmas carols and toneless
announcements of arrivals and departures. Muggle travelers milled all
around, some happy and festive, meeting relatives and friends, others
frowning and harried, checking their watches or pocket telephones, flowing
in all directions.
Finally, Millie led James to the lofty, echoing expanse of the main
terminal, flooded with light and seemingly as huge and crowded as a
football stadium. There, she stopped momentarily, looking this way and
that.
James, however, saw the man a moment before her.
"Um," he said, squeezing Millie's hand to get her attention and
pointing with the other. "I assume he's for us?"
Millie followed James' pointing finger, and then smiled and nodded
excitedly. She began to tug him forward again.
The man James had seen held a large sign at chest height, clutched
in black-gloved hands. The sign read VANDERGRIFF AND GUEST in
neat copperplate letters. It was not the sign, however, that made the man
stand out. It was the fact that he was at least ten feet tall, with a head so
huge and blocky that it might have been hewn at Stonehenge. His thinness
was almost freakish, emphasized by a double-breasted black uniform so
snug that it appeared to have been sewn directly onto his body. The double
row of brass buttons on his chest glinted in the overhead fluorescents, as did
the patent-leather brim of his chauffer's cap.
None of the other travelers seemed to notice the mantis-like man
who towered over them like a telephone pole, his grey eyes unmoving and
patient in the shadow of his cap. But even that was less amazing than what
sat behind the chauffer, completely unnoticed amidst the flowing, busy,
hectic throng.
It was a car, but not like any James had ever seen. It was very old,
immensely long and low, its fenders sweeping back like smooth metal
waves over fat white-walled tyres. Chrome gleamed from the spoked
hubcaps, the gigantic round headlamps, and the tombstone-like frame of its
grill. The passenger compartment was so long and regal that it looked as if
it might contain a ballroom. Jutting from the moon-grey slope of the hood
was a silver figure, a robed woman leaning forward as if into a gust of
delicious wind, her chin raised, her arms thrown back so that her sleeves
trailed like wings.

The throng of travelers flowed around the car like water around a
rock, giving it not so much as a sidelong glance.
"Good evening, Mistress Millicent and Master Potter," the chauffer
said as Millie approached. His voice was deep but surprisingly melodic.
He touched two fingers to the brim of his cap and offered them a stately
little smile.
"Hi Balor, happy Christmas!" Millie called up to the giant man, and
then surprised James by throwing her arms wide, as if in expectation of a
hug. Balor lowered the sign and hunkered to one knee, allowing Millie to
throw her arms around him, although not exactly returning the embrace
himself. When she disengaged, he straightened again, rising so tall as to
blot out the overhead lights, and ran a platter-sized hand over his uniform,
straightening nonexistent wrinkles.
With a faint clunk, the boot of the car swung open. Balor deftly
collected James' and Millie's bags and loaded them into the car, then opened
the rear passenger door. Millie clambered inside. More tentatively, James
stepped in after her—the interior was so large that he barely had to duck his
head—and joined her on a sumptuous burgundy leather sofa that served as
the rear seat. Speechless, he looked about, taking in the paneled walnut
furnishings, the silver fixtures, the gently curving side seats and thick plush
carpeting. A miniature crystal chandelier hung from the gentle dome of the
ceiling. There was no ballroom, in fact, but the front of the passenger
compartment was divided from the driver's seat by a polished wooden bar
decked with crystal decanters, wine and cordial bottles, and rows of glasses
hung upside down in neat racks.
"That's Balor," Millie said, fitting her hand into James' again and
giving it a squeeze. "He's been in the family for, oh, centuries probably."
"What," James asked, watching over the bar as the enormous man
folded himself behind the driver's seat, wrapping his black-gloved hands
around the ring of the burled wooden steering wheel, "what is he?"
Millie blinked up toward Balor as if she'd never really considered
the question. "A cyclops, I think," she answered with a shrug.
The engine of the car started with a subtle, throttling thrum, almost
like a butler clearing his throat.
None of the Muggles looked at the car, and yet they moved aside
before it, clearing a channel for the car to travel through. It began to roll
with understated grace, the prowl of its engine preceding it like a red

carpet. The chandelier barely swung, merely turned its crystal pendants
gently, adding prisms to its distinguished glow.
James had ridden in the Knight Bus through this very terminal
once. But that ride had been wild, frantic, like dancing with a banshee. By
comparison, this was like riding on the shoulders of a giant black panther as
it calmly stalked the jungle.
"But..." James said faintly, "I thought Cyclopses only had one eye?"
Millie shrugged again. "We haven't read that section in Fantastic
Beasts and Where to Find Them yet."
The car, Millie told James almost off-handedly, was a Rolls Royce
Wraith, though admittedly equipped with distinctly magical options. The
engine required no petrol, for instance, running instead on liquid Goblinfire,
and the hood ornament statue projected its own unplottability field
everywhere it went. Even more impressive, James thought, was the car’s
ability to bend space around it wherever it rolled, allowing it to fit through
small openings, such as one of the revolving door entrances of King’s Cross
station. The car didn’t do anything so undignified as shrink itself. Instead,
it seemed to press reality aside as if the world itself were made of plastic, or
the metal and glass doors were mere curtains, drawn back by hidden cords.
The Wraith merged into the dense holiday traffic, but wasn’t in the
least affected by it. Ranks of taxis, cars, lorries, and vans crowded the
slushy boulevard at a near standstill, lurching forward one by one like
impatient animals at a feeding trough, but the Wraith merely slipped
between them, riding the centre line like a rail, bulging the space so that the
narrow aisle became a grand, empty thoroughfare. Balor did stop the car at
traffic lights, but James noticed that the Rolls was always the first in line, its
engine throttling patiently, until the light on the falling feathery flakes
switched from red to green, whereupon the vehicle would ease forward
again, preceding the traffic all around like a general leading troops on
parade.
The drive to Canterbury took some time, and James was reminded
once again of how immensely large London really was. They passed
through shopping districts crowded with travelers on foot, most loaded with
bags and boxes. They skirted industrial areas dominated by brick walls and
filthy windows, tall smokestacks and metal garage doors. Finally, they
came to a neighborhood of large homes set far back behind carefully
pristine gardens. Trees lined the double boulevard, most decorated with

understated white Christmas lights. No cars were parked on the streets
here, and the snow was no longer tramped down by endless intersecting
vehicle and pedestrian tracks. Instead, the boulevard was striped with two
neat black tyre marks, repeated carefully by the few cars that drove here.
The Rolls Royce followed the tracks discreetly while James peered from the
huge side windows, wondering which of the large, impressive-looking
homes might be their destination.
“We’re not there quite yet,” Millie said with a smile in her voice.
James waited, his chest tight with a blend of anticipation and
trepidation that was becoming all too familiar. The only other vehicle on
the road, he noticed, was another large luxury car, though of much newer
vintage, following the Wraith at a respectful distance, its headlights bright
as diamonds on jeweler’s velvet.
As they neared the end of the boulevard, James realized that there
was something unusual about the houses lining the left side. The spaces
between and behind them were seamlessly dark, stretching off into foggy
flatness. With a jolt of mild surprise, James realized that the flatness was
the sea, mostly frozen over, so that the blue-white edges blended into
smooth black over the depths. The rear yards of the homes sloped down to
stony beaches, some dominated by the blocky silhouettes of boathouses, all
dark and shut tight for the winter.
A line of trees obscured the shore view as the Wraith reached the
end of the boulevard, which angled toward the sea and terminated at a neat
round cul-de-sac with a curving metal guardrail. Trees lined the rail,
crowding directly up to it, blotting out the sea view and the night sky
beyond. The streetlamps ended at the last house, leaving the cul-de-sac
thick with shadow, like a giant paved period at the end of a formal sentence.
The Wraith stopped in the centre of the period.
“Are we,” James asked, leaning forward on the seat to peer through
the windscreen far ahead, “like, here yet?”
Beyond the windscreen, the dark line of trees began to shift. The
trunks moved as if in the teeth of a stiff wind, and yet James could tell by
the falling snow that the air was perfectly still. Faint creaks and pops
emanated from the wood as the trees shuffled aside, crawling on their roots
to reveal a dark opening. The opening did not reveal the sea, however, but
a long wooded passage, shadowy and mysterious.
With a screech and creak of metal, the guardrail shimmied,

shuddered, and rose up into the air, its posts growing like tentacles. The rail
transformed as it stretched upwards, changing from a rust-spotted barrier to
a wrought-iron archway, complete with more copperplate letters arranged
over complicated iron scrollwork:
BLACKBRIER QUOIT
The Wraith rolled forward again, passing beneath the sign the
moment it rose to its full height.
Speechlessly, James watched, leaning close to the window on his
side. Millie still held his hand between them, herself paying almost no
attention at all.
The car should have rolled past the tree line and down onto stony
beach, if James’ understanding of the local geography made any sense at
all, and yet it proceeded instead onto a long, perfectly straight drive lined
and roofed with birch trees, their branches knit overhead like revelers
holding hands over a dance. Beyond the trees, on either side of the drive,
James could just make out flat, grey ice, as if the drive occupied a very
narrow peninsula stretching out into the sea.
Gaslights began to glow along the drive, flickering to life atop tall
iron poles, illuminating the birch branches and creating golden pools on the
snowy path. After a minute, the drive widened, still bordered by trees, and
opened onto a broad park-like expanse, blanketed with snow and decorated
with winding, illuminated pathways, stands of trees on small hills,
meticulous hedges, and regal statuary. Situated on the rear quarter of the
park was a stone house so broad and square, so lined with windows and
pillars, ranks of steps and corner towers, that it was more castle than
mansion.
“Home sweet home,” Millie sighed, not quite affectionately.
James barely heard her. He was just now noticing that, despite the
size of the park and its gardens, the trees that surrounded it still somehow
met overhead, lacing their branches together into an unbroken dome a
hundred feet high, effectively shrouding the house and the entirety of its
grounds from outside view.
The Wraith swept into a curving drive and angled toward the glow
of the house, coming to a gentle halt before its grand front doors. The doors
opened as James watched and a line of three men in formal black tailcoats

and white shirts came out, descending dutifully into the cold to take up
positions on the steps, where they stood at attention.
Balor opened the passenger door and Millie prodded James to get
out. He did, stepping speechlessly into the cold, his feet crunching on
gravel beneath a frosting of snow.
“Good evening Mistress and Master,” the nearest of the formal-clad
men announced, bowing his double chin with jovial good humour. He was
rotund but sturdy, with black hair pasted severely over his scalp. “I trust
your journey was pleasant and without event.”
Millie climbed out after James and nodded to the man. “It was fine,
er…?”
“Topham, M’Lady,” the man provided his name with no hesitation,
and then indicated the others with a sweep of his hand. “And this is Hedley
and Blake.” Hedley was middle-aged with a pleasant, clean-shaven face,
while Blake was only a little older than James and Millie, dark haired with
sharp, handsome features. He smiled at Millie and then James in a
perfunctory manner. James noticed that the man’s smile did not at all affect
his eyes.
Millie nodded and opened her mouth to say something, but the
arrival of a second car interrupted her. James turned, surprised to see the
luxury automobile that had been following them earlier draw to a halt
behind the Wraith. The driver’s door swung open as Hedley and Blake
descended the steps to retrieve the luggage from both vehicles.
“Millie!” the driver of the second car called cheerily as he hopped
out, his teeth showing as he grinned toward the steps. He was thin and
sandy haired, dressed in a grey tweed suit and gold tie.
“Bent!” Millie called back, dropping James’ hand and running to
greet the newcomer. They embraced, laughing, before Millie drug the man
back by the hand. He allowed himself to be pulled along, smiling gamely
in James’ direction.
“Bent, this is James Potter, from school. James, this is my big
brother, Benton Ford.”
The thin man stripped off his driving gloves before reaching to give
James’ hand a firm shake. “A Potter at Blackbrier,” he proclaimed
cheerily. “Will wonders never cease! A delight to meet you, James.”
“And you, too,” James grinned, helpless not to return the man’s
happy enthusiasm.

“Mattie,” the man called back over his shoulder, still gripping
James’ hand, “Come meet Millie’s new friend, James Potter.”
James glanced back toward Benton’s car as a woman ascended from
the passenger’s seat. She was dressed in a pale coat and a slim golden
gown that did not exactly bless her bony body. She had large, protuberant
eyes and a chin sharp enough to open letters. Her red hair was drawn up
into a complicated arrangement of waves beneath a furry ivory hat. She
peered at James with cool, professional courtesy.
Millie nodded toward the woman in gold. “And this is my sister,
Mathilda Constance.”
“Welcome to Blackbrier Quoit, Mr. Potter,” Mathilda said, gazing at
him down the length of her blade-like nose before turning her attention to
Topham. “And who shall it be this time, dare I ask?”
“Miss Jillian, M’Lady,” Topham answered immediately. “I believe
she served you during your most recent visit. I hope her efforts were
satisfactory.”
“It isn’t her fault,” Mathilda sniffed, ascending the steps past the
butler. “No outsider can compare to a true house servant.”
“As you say, M’Lady,” Topham nodded, averting his eyes tactfully.
“Come,” Benton said, deliberately ignoring his older sister and
smiling again. “Let’s go inside and show James here around the old place.
It looks impressive until you realize that it’s really just a stuffy old museum
that some people insist on living in. Right, Millie?”
Millie agreed and followed her brother up the steps toward the open
double doors. The interior of the house was brilliant with golden light,
revealing a long corridor of vaulted ceilings, chandeliers, and darkly
gleaming wood.
“Speaking of museums,” Benton announced with a laugh in his
voice, “here we find the best exhibits of all! Mr. and Mrs. Vandergriff
themselves!”
“Oh, do stop, Benton, you embarrass yourself,” his mother said, but
she was smiling, her white-gloved hands outstretched to him. He embraced
her while Mr. Vandergriff turned his attention to James and Millie.
“Welcome home, darling,” he said, smiling as Millie trotted up the
steps to hug him in the doorway.
“And her young friend,” Mrs. Vandergriff said, turning her
twinkling green eyes on James and giving him a secretive smile. She was

lithe and athletic, appearing almost ten years younger than her thinninghaired husband. Her own hair was dark, swept up and held in place by an
emerald and silver comb that accented her forest green dress.
Mr. Vandergriff clapped James on the shoulder, turning him toward
the door. “I’ve met your father on several occasions,” he confided briskly.
“Someday I shall succeed in coaxing him and your mother to visit us here at
Blackbrier. I do hope your stay here will speak well of us.”
James nodded, not quite sure what he could say to express his
response thus far. His first impression was that, with the exception of
Millie’s sister Mathilda, Blackbrier Quoit was both the richest and warmest
household he’d ever visited.
“Dinner in mere minutes, I’m told,” Mr. Vandergriff exclaimed,
turning to address the gathered family. “Isn’t that right, Topham?”
“Indeed so,” Topham answered with a nod. “If the family would
like to convene in the drawing room, we may begin with hot cocoa and
liquorice toddies, wherever age appropriate.”
“Age appropriate nothing,” Benton jibed, walking backward along
the marble-tiled hall, his arms held wide. “It’s Christmas! Toddies for
everyone who wishes!”
“Oh Benton,” Mrs. Vandergriff rolled her eyes with the weary
affection of the mother of a born rogue.
“The servants,” James whispered to Millie as the family moved into
the high bookcases and upholstered couches of a long library-like room,
“they’re all… Muggles?”
Millie nodded. “Happened about a year after the Night of the
Unveiling,” she answered behind an upraised hand. “All the upstairs house
elves were replaced with Muggle staff. Topham’s the butler. Blake’s a
valet, along with the other bloke. I always forget their names. There are
two ladies' maids and a footman or three. Of course all of them have to sign
secrecy contracts and that sort of thing.” She sighed, glancing back toward
the door where Topham stood respectfully at attention. “Mattie and Bent
and I all grew up with house elves caring for us. It’s a little hard getting
used to having actual humans around. But time marches on, apparently.”
“I guess Piggen was right,” James muttered.
“Who?”
“Piggen. He’s the Gryffindor house elf. He says all the elves are
worried that they’ll lose their jobs. I told him it wasn’t that bad a deal,

since they were all basically slaves anyway, but they don’t see it that way.”
Millie nodded and shrugged. “Mummy says that hiring Muggles is
a way to spread goodwill for when the Vow completely breaks down. She
says that keeping unpaid servants around is a relic from a darker age,
anyway.”
James considered this, but his reply was drowned by Topham, who
suddenly spoke to the room at large, announcing another arrival.
“The Countess Eunice Vandergriff of Blackbrier,” he proclaimed
loftily.
James turned to see a woman so ancient and wrinkled that he
wondered briefly if she was older than the manor itself. She walked
imperiously in a sweeping burgundy dress, her back ramrod straight as she
clacked a cane to the marble floor, seemingly more for effect than support.
“Mother,” Mr. Vandergriff said grandly, moving to kiss the old
woman on the cheek. Millie and Benton followed suit. The Countess
accepted this with stoic patience, eyeing the room severely. Her gaze alit
upon James like a set of weights and he had to resist the urge to shrink back
from her stare.
“Please introduce me to our guest,” she said, nodding once toward
James. Her voice was high and tremulous, painstakingly genteel.
“Of course,” Mrs. Vandergriff said, stepping back and smiling aside
at James. “This is Mr. James Sirius Potter, Millicent’s new friend from
school.”
The Countess’ eyes crinkled slightly at the corners and she seemed
to suppress a small, knowing smile. “Millicent’s new ‘friend’, indeed?”
James stepped forward, his mind racing as he wondered what was
expected from him under the circumstances. “Nice to meet you, er,
ma’am.”
“In this house, you may call me Lady Blackbrier, which is my less
formal title,” the Countess said, extending her gloved hand, palm down.
James shook it tentatively by the fingers. She seemed content with this.
“And I shall call you James, rather than by your more formal title, I think.”
James blinked up at the woman, who regarded him with slightly
raised brow.
“My more formal title, ma’am—I mean, erm, Lady Blackbrier?”
“Certainly yes,” she answered smoothly. “You are the first-born
heir to the master of the Black estate of Grimmauld, are you not?”

“Er…” James frowned, replaying her words in his head. Was it
possible that she meant Grimmauld place? “I… guess so?” he answered.
“Then by law that makes you the future Earl of Black Downing, if
I’m not mistaken. And I’m quite certain that I am not.” She cinched her
left eyebrow a notch higher, giving James the impression of a regal wink.
A moment later, she turned away and said in a louder voice, “What does a
lady need to do to get a toddy to warm her poor bones from the cold?”
Topham bustled, and the conversation in the room gradually
resumed.
James stood exactly where the Countess had left him, his eyes wide,
completely flummoxed.
“Well,” Millie said brightly, half a smile cocked onto her lips.
“Does this mean I must start calling you ‘M’Lord’?”

12. MIDNIGHT RENDEZVOUS
The answer to James’ early, idle question—would he and Millie,
while visiting her family, be more or less supervised than they were at
school—was answered over the course of the following hours and days.
Every moment was scheduled, it seemed, and there were always people
around. It was less like being supervised, exactly, and more like attending a
sort of school for aristocrats, where the lessons were tea time, formal
receptions, incomprehensibly dull party games, and long-winded
introductions to this visiting family or that impressive dignitary or the other
guest foreign ambassador whom James had only ever seen in photographs
in the Daily Prophet but whose knee Millie remembered sitting on when
she was five years old, and whose children she asked after with sincere
fondness. It took James awhile to realize that many of the people that
appeared in the paintings decking the manor house walls were real, living
people, albeit much older, who frequented the home over the holidays.
Every meal was a nearly three-hour affair for which everyone
changed into their best clothes and went through a sort of multi-room
procession, beginning in the drawing room for aperitifs (expertly presided
over by Topham the butler), then moving to the long, regal dining room for
the actual courses (with carefully assigned seating that Millie had to coach
James through) whereupon more Muggle servants in tailcoats and white ties

served the food and poured the drinks, and ending eventually in the parlor
(for the ladies) and the library (for the gentlemen).
After dinner on the second night, James joined the men as they
gathered around the enormous library hearth, which was large enough to
park a car in, drinking a brownish-ruby liquor called cognac (James himself
received a glass of warmed butterbeer with a sprig of holly on the rim), and
talked loftily of weighty matters of which James had little understanding:
upcoming changes of justices at the Wizengamot; revised regulations about
magical flight in Muggle places; breaches of international magical secrecy
in places like Tibet and Istanbul. At first James felt awkward and out-ofplace, but soon enough he realized that not only was he interested in the
topics, he was welcomed into the discussion by Mr. Vandergriff himself,
who always stood in his dinner jacket with his back to the fire, swirling his
cognac in a round bowl-like glass.
“Your father was on the scene when the wizarding monks of Lijiang
City threw open their doors for their Muggle counterparts, if I am not
mistaken,” he prodded James with a nod. “I envy the conversations your
family must have of an evening!”
“We don’t talk about it much as a family, actually,” James admitted.
“But Dad and I did talk about it in his study. He said that the monks of
Lijiang had wished for centuries to combine the methods of their magical
lifestyle with their non-magical neighbors. They believe that even the
Muggle monks are secretly magical, but that theirs is a magic of the innerworld of the mind. They call it the in-scape.”
One of the evening’s dinner guests, a fat Ministry official with huge
pork-chop sideburns, grey as iron, and a mottled red nose, now redder from
cognac, snorted into his glass. “Everyone knows the wizarding cannot
merely teach magic to the Muggles. Well-intentioned codswollop.”
“Dad says the wizard monks don’t intend to teach magic to the
Muggle monks. They want to be taught by them, about their own more
subtle disciplines of inner magic. The only reason they waited until the
magical boundaries were weakening was because it felt selfish to them to
want to know both.”
The Ministry official harrumphed at this, but Mr. Vandergriff (whose
actual title was Lord William of Blackbrier) smiled and raised his glass in a
toast. “To the wise wizarding monks of Lijiang, and all the rest of us who
will hopefully make the best of this brave new world we find ourselves on

the cusp of.”
James raised his own glass, enjoying the grown-up feeling of taking
part in such a proper-sounding toast, but the effect was marred shortly by
the late arrival of another wing of the family, accompanied by a gaggle of
three small children. The children had heard of James Potter (or, more
accurately, of his famous father) and were immediately enthralled. The two
boys and one girl, all under six years old and immaculately dressed in
miniature versions of the adult formal wear, immediately claimed James as
their own and circled him like happy butterflies, demanding he play with
them, acting out the stories they’d been told and retold about his legendary
father.
James played along gamely, reluctantly giving in to their insistent
rambunctiousness, until Millie emerged from the parlor and intervened on
his behalf.
“You know,” she said, dipping her head secretively, “James is rather
famous himself. He once played Treus in ‘the Triumvirate’.”
The two boys’ eyes widened in newfound amazement as they
looked up at James. The girl, who was the eldest cocked her head
dubiously. “No, he couldn’t have,” she protested with flinty-eyed certainty.
“He’s too young.”
“It was a production at our school,” Millie explained. “Everyone in
it was young. Even Donovan, the villain.”
“I want to be Donovan the villain!” the youngest boy, Nigel,
suddenly shouted. “Edmund can be the king. The king doesn’t do
anything. He’s just a fat old numpty.”
And with that, for better or worse, it was apparently decided that the
children, with Millie’s and James’ help, would put on their own version of
the Triumvirate, acting it out in the drawing room for the benefit of the
adults and even the Muggle servants two nights hence, on Christmas Eve.
“What a charming idea,” Mrs. Vandergriff announced, giving James
a warm, surprised smile. He started to protest that it hadn’t at all been his
idea, but then he understood her expression: half grateful and half
sympathetic. The Lady of the house was secretly relieved that someone
would be occupying the children, who could, at times, be quite a handful.
He glanced at Millie, who merely shrugged and nodded at him. The
children cheered this development enthusiastically.
It was nearing eleven o’clock before the family and guests all began

to trickle up to the second and third floors where the many bedrooms
ranged down long hallways. James met Millie at the bottom of the grand
staircase to say goodnight. She pecked him chastely on the cheek in the
sight of her parents in the hall below and the painting of a stern-faced
Vandergriff patriarch on the wall above.
“Meet me in the dining room in half-an-hour,” she whispered into
his ear, so close that her breath tickled. A moment later, she turned and ran
up the steps, her dress flouncing around her ankles. He watched her go,
uncertain what to make of her suggestion. Did she want time alone with
him? Somehow he expected that she had more in mind than a brief snog in
the dark.
He waited in his room for twenty minutes with the door closed and
the fireplace roaring, filling the room with golden light and warmth. The
four-poster bed was as high as a table and wide enough for his whole family
to sleep on. The curtains bracketing the windows were twelve feet from
floor to ceiling, held back by golden cords as thick as his wrist. A clock on
the mantel stood square and upright, like a soldier at attention, its brass face
gleaming, its soft tick cutting the minutes into precise, paper-thin slices.
James waited and watched. When the clock struck eleven, it emitted a faint
ratchet and whirr, stood higher on its wooden legs, and raised a pair of
articulated brass arms. It struck its own bell with one arm and wound itself
with the other, twisting a tiny key in what, for all intents and purposes, now
looked like its bellybutton.
Just as it had the previous night, the fire diminished in the hearth as
if someone had turned down a dimmer switch, shrinking from a flickering
roar to a sleepy bed of red coals which danced with only a few tongues of
flame. The cords of the curtains untied themselves and the curtains swept
shut over the windows, closing like sleepy eyelids.
The effect made James himself blink with tiredness. Even without
house elves (at least upstairs, he reminded himself) the manor was clearly
deeply enchanted.
He shook himself before he could drift into a deeper doze, got up,
instinctively grabbed his coat from the wardrobe by the door, and slipped
silently out into the darkened hall.
The portrait of the stern-faced Vandergriff patriarch presided over
the grand staircase, now dim in the glow of a few remaining candles. The
figure was much larger than life, seated in a straight-backed wooden chair

and wearing a red top-coat resplendent with medals and epaulettes and rows
of brass buttons. Its mutton-chop bearded face was wide and somber, with
regal eyes that seemed to own everything it gazed upon. A fat hand with
hairy knuckles absently patted a huge St. Bernard dog that sat panting next
to the chair, its tongue dangling like a carpet in need of rolling up.
“You’re not going to tell on us, are you?” James whispered up at the
huge face as he slipped down the landing.
“You’re not up to something that needs telling on, are you?” the
portrait replied consideringly, raising a patient, bushy eyebrow at James.
James shrugged and padded onward, down the carpeted stairs. He
honestly didn’t know what they were up to.
Millie was already waiting for him in the dining room, merely a girlshaped shadow on the other side of the long, gleaming table. She had
changed out of her poofy evening gown into a pair of jeans and a black
hooded sweatshirt. Her coat was slung over her shoulder.
“Come on!” she whispered eagerly, and darted toward a rear door.
James recognized it as the door Topham and the servants used during
mealtimes. She pushed through into a narrow hall, turned toward an
equally narrow stairwell, and flitted down, taking the steps two at a time.
James followed, trying to match both her speed and her stealth, which was
no easy task. She had apparently done this many, many times before,
whatever this was.
The downstairs was clearly the domain of the house elves.
Everything was smaller and far more austere. James spied his first house
elf as they passed a diminutive kitchen. The elf was scrubbing the top of a
wooden butcher block but paused to look up as he and Millie darted past.
James sensed more than saw other elves moving here and there throughout
the warren of lower rooms. There was a laundry, a pantry, a sewing room
complete with an ancient treadle-powered sewing machine, and a wine
cellar decked with racks of dusty bottles.
Finally, Millie pulled open a door at the end of a short hall. Cold air
and flecks of snow rushed in with it. She glanced back for the first time,
her eyes sparkling with mischief. “Oh good,” she said in a quick, low
voice. “You remembered to bring your coat.”
“What are we—?” he began, but she was already gone, vanished
into the darkness beyond the door. James darted to follow, tugging the door
closed behind him with an impatient thunk.

Millie ran ahead again along a fieldstone path, neatly cleared of
snow, which curved down the slope of the rear yard. He heard her laugh
faintly on the cold wind and felt a moment of annoyance at her for not
explaining what they were up to or where they were going. It occurred to
James, and not for the first time, that Millicent Vandergriff enjoyed teasing
and mysteriousness just a bit too much.
Like many of the smaller houses on the boulevard that led to
Blackbrier Quoit, the manor’s back garden sloped away to a shingle of
rocky beach and a boathouse. This one, however, was nestled snug among
the boundary of trees, poking through them like a hedgehog through a
shrubbery. The building was squat and grey, built of sturdy stone and
adorned with deep-set, perfectly square windows. Millie reached the greenpainted door and heaved it open onto pearly darkness. James slowed to a
trot as she turned her face back to smile at him. Her lips were very red in
the darkness, and her cheeks glowed with color.
“Have you ever ridden a snowmobile before?”
James blinked at her as if she’d just spoken in a different language.
“It’s OK,” she went on, reading his expression. “I hadn’t either until
a year ago. Blake showed me how. It’s easy, actually.”
She turned away again, nearly bursting with excitement, and her
boots knocked on the wood of the boathouse floor.
“Wait!” James called hoarsely, following her with deepening
trepidation. “Did you say a… a snowmobile?”
The interior of the boathouse was dim with the preternatural glow of
the snowy world outside, bathing the old shelves and workbench and
hanging anchors and coils of rope with a moony softness. The opposite end
of the space was a huge garage door, closed and locked tight. The floor was
a wooden frame around a huge rectangular hole. A boat hung over the hole,
floating by pure magic so that it bobbed slightly, as if haunted by the ghost
of swells past. The hull was gleaming varnished wood, long and sleek, with
brass portholes, its top wrapped in blue tarp and yellow rope, sealed for the
winter, hiding its glory.
Millie ignored the boat, stopping at a railing and leaning over to
peer into the dimness beneath the boathouse.
“Blake?” she whispered, her voice suddenly tentative.
“Vroom, vroom, M’Lady,” a voice called up.
“Ugh, I told you never to call me that outside of the house. It’s

embarrassing.” As she spoke, she turned back to James, reached to take his
hand, and led him to a ladder that ran from the ceiling down through the
hole in the floor.
“Millie,” James said impatiently, tugging on her hand to get her
attention. “What is this? What are we doing? We’re not going to get into
loads of barney for this, are we?”
“Oh, don’t be silly, James,” Millie soothed, returning to him and
nestling into his arms. She batted her eyes up at him. “You’ve seen what
my life looks like here. A girl needs to escape sometimes. She needs to be
reminded that life isn’t all white gloves and cucumber sandwiches. Why,
you should hear the dickens my mother says she got up to when she was my
age. A little sneaking out is to be expected. Why, it’s nearly a tradition.”
“So that means if we get caught,” James ventured tentatively, “we
won’t be in any sort of trouble?”
Millie’s eyes widened and twinkled with excitement. “Oh, it would
be completely scandalous! My father would go absolutely through the
roof! It would make the newspapers and everything! That’s what makes it
so much fun!”
She tugged him again to the ladder and began to clamber down
herself. James could see the dull grey expanse of ice beneath, skirled with
tendrils of snow. Three black shapes huddled there, one distinctly manshaped, the other two long and low, looking like motorbikes cross-bred with
thestrals and fitted onto skis. The rear “legs” of the machines knelt on
looped treads like miniature tanks. James had heard of snowmobiles and
even seen a few photographs, but never imagined encountering one in real
life.
Blake was no longer dressed in black tails and a white shirt. He
now wore snow-dusted jeans and a hooded sweatshirt beneath a leather
jacket. His hair and eyes were hidden beneath a cap and mirrored snow
goggles. “It’s easy,” he called up in what James couldn’t help thinking was
a nasty lilt. “You accelerate with the right hand, you brake with the left.”
He demonstrated with hands encased in thick black gloves, then tilted his
head provocatively. “It’ll be a cinch for you, after riding a broom.”
“Oh stop, Blake,” Millie said, jumping to the ice beneath the
boathouse.
James didn’t want to climb down to the ice. He didn’t want to
attempt to ride one of those daft Muggle machines. And mostly he did not

want to share the evening with Blake, whose smile, even while serving in
the manor house, struck him as disingenuous and even a little mean.
And still he found himself leaning to clamber down the ladder,
hopping to the surprisingly solid ice below, and approaching one of the
black snowmobiles. He didn’t fully understand why he went along, except
that the thought of Millie riding pillion behind the young man, holding onto
him as they raced along the frozen bay into whatever heady nocturnal
adventure lay ahead, filled him with bristling, angry heat. It was much too
similar to what he felt whenever he imagined Professor Odin-Vann and
Petra together—a thought that even now poisoned him with jealous bile.
“I told you he’d try it,” Millie said smugly, nudging Blake with her
elbow.
Blake accepted this with a half shrug. “We’ll see. Helmets,
everyone.”
He distributed what appeared to be motorcycle helmets to Millie and
James before dropping to straddle the leading snow machine with practiced
ease.
James wished he had his Thunderstreak with him, or better yet, his
skrim. He had a sudden, irresistible urge to show up the Muggle prat, to
blow past him and his stupid snowmobile at top speed, trailing a storm of
white powder like a force of nature.
Instead, James felt he had no choice but to clamber awkwardly onto
the second snowmobile. Millie fitted herself onto the seat behind him and
laced her hands around his belly, holding tight and leaning in eagerly. Her
helmet bobbled briefly against his and James heard her giggle.
The handlebars of the machine were black, wide, and complicated
with red buttons, throttles, and triggers. James had no idea what to do but
refused to ask. He watched as, ahead, Blake twisted to look back.
“Stay close,” he called. “We’re only going a mile or so. I’ll take it
slow.”
“Don’t do us any favors,” James answered, sounding much more
confident than he felt.
Blake smiled beneath his mirrored goggles, and then turned back.
James watched the young man grasp the handlebars of his own machine and
thumb a throttle on the right grip. The treads spun, spewing a cloud of ice
shavings, and the machine lurched forward, driving out from beneath the
boathouse.

James found the throttle on his own machine and thumbed it, just as
he had seen Blake do.
It was a fortunate thing indeed that they were on ice. The machine
jolted forward so hard and fast that James nearly lost his grip on the yoke.
Millie squealed and tugged at his midsection, very nearly pulling them both
backwards off the snowmobile as it bucked away. Had they been on soft
snow, the grip of the machine would have been much stronger, causing it to
leap away beneath them like a bounding cat. On the ice, however, the
snowmobile spun its treads, accelerating swiftly but gradually. It slewed
toward one of the boathouse’s wooden pilings and James steered frantically
away. It was like trying to control a swinging millstone. The rear quarter
of the machine struck the piling, juddered against it, and then squirted out
into the moonlight of the lake, picking up speed.
Millie laughed again and squeezed James’ midsection. “I knew you
could do it!”
“I’m not doing anything yet!” James called back, unsure if she could
hear him over the whine of the engine and the scrape of the treads on the
ice. “Just hold on!”
She held on. James twisted the yoke experimentally, threaded the
throttle with his right hand, and the machine lunged forward again,
following nominally in the direction of the other snowmobile. Blake raced
ahead without looking back, cutting across the expanse of flat, grey ice
while keeping a discreet distance from the shoreline and the dark houses
that presided over it.
James had expected disaster. He had expected to spin the machine
into the rocky shore, or somehow crash it through the ice, or otherwise
completely endanger and embarrass himself in front of Millie and the
smugly smiling Blake. For the moment, at least, that hadn’t happened, and
he was relieved. He pressed the throttle harder and the machine revved
beneath them, leaping forward on the ice even faster. It was heady, even
exhilarating, despite being (as he understood on some level, in the voice of
his mother) completely daft and reckless.
Ah well, he thought with a mental shrug, what else is being young
for?
Blake led them past the row of stately homes on the shore, around a
promontory of spindly woods, and across a bay surrounded by hulking
industrial buildings, smokestacks, and factories. Beyond these, a cluster of

docks stretched like fingers out into the ice, now bereft of boats and drifted
with snow. Blake angled toward these and slowed, eventually slotting his
vehicle between the skeletal shapes of the docks. He ducked as he killed
the engine, letting momentum push the snowmobile forward into the
shadow of a cement pier, where he seemed to park it.
James followed suit, threading much more slowly around the dock
pilings and humping over smooth dunes of snow. As he edged the machine
close to its twin, Blake met them, reached across with a snow-crusted glove,
and did something that caused the snowmobile’s engine to cut off with a
cough and a jerk.
“We could take these all the way into London proper right now if we
wanted to,” he said, showing his teeth in what James thought was the first
genuine smile the man had offered. “What with the Thames being frozen
over for the first time in a decade. But this should do the trick for tonight, I
think. Now, let’s have some Muggle style fun,”
He led them to a rusty ladder bolted to the side of the concrete pier,
then up the pier and into a warren of ramshackle buildings, all clustered and
leaning together as if for warmth. Some of the buildings were houses made
of weathered grey planks, most with porches sagging under mounds of
snow.
Others were brick warehouses or wharves, garages with
indecipherable graffiti spray-painted onto their doors and walls. Blake led
them to a corner beneath a stuttering, buzzing streetlamp, where a tiny pub
thumped with a dull bass beat and a rabble of loud voices. Neon signs
glowed from its tiny windows, advertising brands and logos James had
never heard of.
He gulped but forced himself to follow with no hesitation as Blake
led them to the plain wooden door, which was covered in peeling paint the
color of dried blood. He heaved it open, and a roar of heat and noise and
laughter barreled out over the slushy footpath. The smell of cigarettes and
beer was so strong he could nearly taste it.
“Millie here calls this ‘slumming’,” Blake said, leaning toward
James as they edged inside. “But for you and me, it’s not slumming if it’s
the world we come home to every night, eh?”
“I guess not,” James nodded, trying to take in every corner of the
tiny pub at once. Along the rear was a crowded bar backed by rows of
bottles and a cloudy wall-length mirror. A television flashed blue over the
bar, presiding over the scene with its bright, blaring eye. Elsewhere, a

billiard table clacked and knocked, glowing red beneath its own dedicated
stained-glass lamp. A jukebox thumped and pulsed. People danced on a
postage-stamp sized dance floor. The crowd was dense but strangely
faceless, mere gyrating silhouettes in the pooling, smoky darkness. “I don’t
live like Millie,” James said, raising his voice carefully so that only Blake
would hear him, “but this isn’t the sort of neighborhood I go home to every
night.”
“Thank your lucky stars,” Blake said, nudging James jovially.
The next hour and a half went by in a blur of thumping music,
clattering bottles and glasses on a cracked wooden booth table (James tried
a beer called Old Speckled Hen, which he nursed throughout the night but
never developed much of a taste for) and trying awkwardly to dance
amongst the constant bump of elbows and knees on the diminutive dance
floor.
Millie seemed to love every minute of it. She smiled showing all of
her teeth—something she hadn’t done since arriving at her parents’ home—
and sipped a ridiculous pink cocktail that the bartender had happily
provided when she’d requested “the girliest drink in the house”. James had
an idea that if they had not been accompanied by Blake, who seemed to be
a very familiar face in the neighborhood, he and Millie might not have been
served quite so readily, and surely not without any identification to prove
their age, at the very least. In Blake’s presence, they were dismissed as
simply two more affectionate hooligans out for a night of harmless
debauchery.
By the time they stepped back out into the blowing cold and dark of
the street, James’ ears felt like they were packed with cotton batting from
the noise inside. Millie was giggling and reeling slightly from her drink,
holding onto James as they followed Blake back down the street toward the
docks.
“It’s a good thing James here is driving,” she said rather too loudly,
her voice strained with laughter as she patted him on the shoulder with one
hand, gripped his elbow with the other.
James’ mood alternated between relief that the night was nearly
over, annoyance at Millie for her cavalier attitude about getting into trouble,
and cautious satisfaction that he seemed to have held his own against the
seemingly far more dashing and mysterious Blake.
Without any more conversation, they shuffled down the pier,

climbed to the waiting snowmobiles on the ice below, and started them up
again. Within minutes, they were traversing the cold blue numb of the bay
again, Millie once more gripping James tight around the waist, James
following the speeding dark shape of Blake ahead.
The moon had come out, sheathing the world in preternatural blue
light. It shone off the snow and ice so brightly that it made its own ghostly
daylight, surreal beneath the sharp glitter of the stars above. The ice blurred
beneath the snowmobile’s skids, laced with ribbons of white against deep,
cloudy grey.
The peninsula of Blackbrier Quoit hove into view, scratching at the
low sky with its impenetrable dome of trees. James marveled at it. From
the outside, the peninsula appeared as nothing more than a strip of
wilderness, dense with birches and snow-laden pines, allowing no hint of
the manor or grounds within. Even the stone boathouse at its tip was so
overshadowed by trees that it was virtually invisible unless one knew
exactly where to look.
Blake slowed and swung toward the structure, sliding into the
shadows beneath. James followed, squeezing the brake lever with a
modicum of confidence now, and cut the engine before Blake could come
back and do it for him.
Millie clambered off the seat behind him and slipped on the ice,
grabbing a nearby wooden piling for support and giggling again. Blake
reached to steady her as James dismounted. He pried the helmet from his
head, dropped it to the snowmobile seat, and stepped out from beneath the
boathouse with a sigh, glad to be shut of the noisy Muggle machine. The
expanse of the bay shone like polished stone in the moon glow, like bluegrey marble threaded with white. He breathed in the icy air, listening to
Millie’s and Blake’s whispered words and laughter behind him.
“So, are we still a go for tomorrow night?” Blake asked in a hushed
voice. Millie shushed him before he could finish his question.
“What…?” James began to ask, a flicker of jealousy flaring once
again in his chest, but something caught his eye far out on the ice,
distracting him even as he began to turn around.
It was a figure, but so distant, so fogged by blowing phantoms of
snow that James couldn’t tell if it was real or a statue. It didn’t appear to be
moving, only standing straight, alert, as if watching from the dead centre of
the frozen sea.

Behind James, he could still hear Millie and Blake whispering. He
glanced back over his shoulder as they made their way deeper into the
shadow of the boathouse.
“Do you either of you see—?” he began, turning back to the
mysterious shape, but a gasp of shock cut off his words. The figure was
standing directly in front of him now, having traversed the vast, icy distance
as if it were a mere footstep. James recognized the tall, lithe figure
immediately. The strength fell out of his legs and he only remained
standing because his knees had locked.
“She’s a very pretty girl, James,” Judith said in a low, confiding
voice, a voice that was somehow both warm and brittle with cold. Her
words made puffs of vapour from beneath a black cowl. Her face would
have been hidden completely if not for the moonlight that reflected up from
the ice. “I’m glad you’ve finally gotten over Petra. She was no good for
you. For either of us.”
James took a single, halting step backward. He tried to call out to
Millie and Blake, but the breath seemed locked in his chest. All he could
produce was a sort of huffing exhalation, stifled with sudden shivers.
Judith stepped forward and raised her hands, open and empty, in a
sort of conciliatory gesture. The effect was ruined, however, by the
blackened, shriveled skin of her arms and fingers. The flesh beneath her
skin seemed to have shrunken away so that only bones remained, mere
skeletal hands wrapped in dead, mummified leather.
“I’ve gotten over Petra as well, you see,” she said, looking sadly
down at her own hands. “She’s turned on me, poisoned me. She leeches
the life right out of me. But perhaps it’s for the best. Sometimes we have
to sever the relationships that formed us. Sometimes that’s the only path to
forging new and better relationships.”
She stepped forward again, bringing her face closer to James. He
backed up another unsteady, clumsy step, and felt his back thud against one
of the boathouse’s support pilings.
The blackness of Judith’s hands and arms began to creep up her
neck beneath the cowl. It cast veins of deathly purple around her mouth
and eyes, sapped the color from her vibrant cheeks. Her eyes dulled, faded,
darkened to inky black orbs.
“You’re a wise young man to stay away from Petra,” she said, and
her voice was changing as well. It buzzed in her throat, as if she was full of

wasps. “Despite what you may think, I loved her as well. But love can turn
on us. It can be the sharpest dagger of all. Love can be either the blade that
destroys us…” she raised her hands again, showing the decay in her
spindly, ghastly fingers, “or the weapon that empowers us to do… what we
must!” She was bare inches from him as she spat this last, rasping the
words as the blackness claimed her entire face, sinking her cheeks and eyes,
pulling her lips back from her teeth and gums in a grimace of deathly hate.
“Stay away from her, James,” she rasped, writhing as if the words
were like broken glass in her throat. “You cannot stop Petra. You cannot
win her. If you try, all that you love will die. And still she will prevail!
She must prevail!”
And then, horribly, a hoarse scream of pain and rage ripped from
Judith’s throat, forcing her head back, her chin up, so that her cowl fell
away, releasing her hair. It was white, as dry as cobweb, flowing like
seaweed into the suddenly rushing air.
“James?”
A hand gripped his shoulder and he jerked away from it, batted at
the fingers as if from the clutch of death itself. Wind whipped through his
hair, icy and flecked with mist, howling beneath the boathouse and
shrieking in its drainpipes. He boggled and flailed and nearly collapsed to
the hard ice in shock.
But suddenly there was no Judith. The Lady of the Lake was gone
—if she had ever really been there at all. Millie stood with her hand still
raised, frowning at James in surprised consternation.
He gasped deeply, drawing the cold air into his lungs as if he hadn’t
breathed in minutes. The noise of the gusting wind rattled the windows
above. Millie had to raise her voice to be heard over it.
“Are you all right?” Her eyes were wide and startled in the
dimness.
James tried to nod, to collect himself. “I… I just thought I saw…
something. Out on the ice.”
Millie considered this, glancing out over the flat expanse of the
frozen bay. There was nothing but blowing ghosts of snow and moon-glow
to be seen.
“We should go in,” she said, bringing her gaze back to James with
some concern. “Feels like a storm is coming in. Blake will take one of the
snowmobiles back tonight. He and a friend will collect the other one

tomorrow.”
James nodded, as if the parking status of the snowmobiles had been
of some nagging concern to him. In truth, he barely heard Millie’s words.
In his mind, all he heard was Judith’s hoarse shriek in the howl of the wind.
All he saw was the creeping purple-black emaciation of her hands and face.
All that you love will die…!
And suddenly he knew: it was not death or flame that was shriveling
Judith’s heretofore perfect skin. It was the scorch of a kind of existential
frostbite. Without Petra’s connection to root Judith in reality, she was
slowly succumbing to the absolute zero of the waiting, hungry void from
which she had come. But if so, why would she wish James to stay away
from Petra, to assure that she, Petra, succeeded in her mission to leave this
reality forever?
A shiver that had nothing to do with cold shook James from head to
toe.
Millie took his hand.
Five minutes later, she kissed him outside of his bedroom on the
second floor. He barely felt it. His lips were numb. The air around both of
them was still a wreath of cold.
Twenty minutes later, James lay in the enormous bed staring up at
the dark ceiling.
Outside, the wind wailed and moaned, hiding the voice of chaos and
madness that seemed to surge constantly beneath it. James tried to tune it
out, even pulled a pillow up over his head, but could not seem to drown out
that keening, pained howl.
It was a voice that only he, unfortunately, seemed doomed to hear.

13. THE TRIUMVIRATE REVISITED
James slept in late the next morning, missing breakfast, so that by
the time he came blearily to the table in search of tea everyone else was
already gone for the morning, apparently on a final Christmas Eve shopping
trip to Sartori Alley. The glare outside the broad windows was so bright
with new snow that it was painful to look at. Cold light filled the dining
room and reflected from the glossy wood of the table so that James had to
squint as he plopped to a seat. To his embarrassment, he was waited on by
Blake, who was once more dressed in his formal tails and white shirt, his
hair combed severely and gleaming black.
“I trust Sir had a restful night,” he commented perfunctorily as he
poured hot water into James’ cup.
James couldn’t bring himself to answer or even to make eye
contact. Blake, for his part, seemed to enjoy James’ discomfiture.
“Toast, Sir?” he asked brightly.
“Sure,” James answered dully, watching the steam rise from his
steeping cup.
“Jam, Sir?”
“No. Thanks.”

“Honey, Sir?”
“No.”
“Butter, Sir?”
“No. Wait. Yes.”
“Straight or diagonal sliced, Sir?”
James finally turned and looked up at Blake where he stood nearby.
“Tell the house elf who makes it that she can draw and quarter it for all I
care. And while you’re at it, feel free to take it down a notch, why don’t
you.”
It was like kicking a statue. Blake didn’t blink, merely smiled his
small, insincere smile. “Very good, Sir. I shall have that for you in just a
jiffy.”
When the toast came, it was diagonally sliced, perfectly buttered,
sitting on a China plate without a single crumb visible, and decorated with a
twist of orange and a sprig of parsley.
“I hope this is to Sir’s satisfaction,” Blake said, with just a trace of
courteous doubt.
James sighed and gave up, stuffing a slice of toast into his mouth
before anything he regretted could come out of it.
Blake went out a minute later, leaving the servant’s door to swing in
and out on its hinge. His voice echoed back dully, impatiently, and as the
door swung, showing regressively smaller slices of the hall beyond, James
caught a glimpse of a female house elf standing just inside, observing him
with her large, strangely somber eyes. She was probably the one from the
kitchen, checking to assure that James found his toast acceptable. The
expression on her face, however, showed less servile efficiency and more
watchful intent. As the door swung one last time, showing only a few
inches of dark hall and one large elven eye, James saw her face tilt back in
the direction of Blake, her expression sharpening, her brow lowering with
undisguised contempt.
James chewed his second slice of toast and thought about his
conversation with the Gryffindor house elf, Piggen. Things seemed to be
coming true just as he and his fellow elves feared. Humans were taking
over house elf duties, all in the name of equality and progress. Aunt
Hermione would heartily approve. And yet the house elves themselves
were obviously painfully unhappy with this new reality. James wondered
briefly what had happened to the former upstairs house elves that had been

replaced by Blake and Topham and the rest. Where did house elves go
when they were dismissed? Did they all still live in the downstairs warren
of rooms, only without any purpose or duties to occupy them? If so, it
seemed like an arrangement destined to end badly.
Impulsively, James jumped up, tossed the last bite of his toast onto
the plate, and strode to the servant’s door. He pushed it open with one
hand, certain that he would be too late to speak to the female house elf, to
ask her his questions, and he was right. The hallway was empty, dark
except for the glaring light from one window at the far end, reflecting on
the polished wooden floor, turning it into a blind, imperfect mirror.
James exhaled, slumped, and allowed the door to swing shut again.
He spent the next hour and a half haunting the house by himself,
never fully alone (the servants could be sensed just out of sight at most
times, slipping furtively from rooms as he entered them, leaving a feeling of
half-finished dusting or half-fluffed pillows behind them, so that James felt
underfoot at every turn) but surrounded by the somehow watchful
emptiness of the house. The portraits observed him sleepily but James
couldn’t bring himself to talk to any of them. They were all just a bit too
old and imperious for his comfort. In the ticking silence, his thoughts
returned repeatedly to last night’s confrontation with Judith, probing the
memory like a tongue probing a loose tooth.
His first question was the most obvious one of all: had it really
happened? Was it possible that he had imagined it somehow? Or, more
likely, that it had been a sort of magical vision projected directly into his
mind by Judith? Neither Millie nor Blake seemed to have seen her. But
then again, they’d been chatting secretly in the shadows beneath the
boathouse. The wind and blowing snow would have been enough to
conceal Judith’s form and drown her voice. The memory of her certainly
didn’t feel like a dream or a vision. He remembered the wasted, blue-black
shrivel of her hands and arms. With a hard shiver, he recalled the way the
deadness had crept up her neck and over her face, spreading in blossoming
veins just beneath her skin.
He decided that it didn’t matter whether Judith had physically
appeared or merely projected a vision into his mind. By venturing out onto
the frozen bay he had stepped into her domain—she was the Lady of the
Lake, after all—and she had taken the opportunity to send him a simple,
emphatic message: stay away from Petra.

But she had sent another message as well, perhaps unwittingly: over
the past few years, Judith had clearly begun to lose her grip on this plane of
existence. When Petra broke the connection between herself, Izzy, and
Judith during the night of the Morrigan Web, she had apparently revoked
Judith’s right to occupy human reality. Without Petra’s sponsorship, Judith
was slowly being reclaimed by the void beyond life and death. It was
sapping her, perhaps weakening her, but also making her mad, and
desperate, and (James suspected) far more dangerous than ever.
This, he decided, was a good thing. Soon, Judith’s grasp on human
existence would collapse entirely. She would sift away back into the
nothingness from which she had been summoned those several years
before, when she had apparently arisen from the small woodland lake on the
fringes of Morganstern farm, paid for by the murder of Petra’s stepmother,
Phyllis.
But in the meantime, Judith was restless. What had she said before
vanishing into the wind and snow? Sometimes we have to sever the
relationships that formed us… sometimes that’s the only way to forge new
and better relationships…
Was Judith seeking a new host? A different sponsor that could
renew her right to occupy the human world, allowing her to continue her
quest for chaos, death, and destruction?
James sat in the cold sunlight of the empty library and shook his
head firmly. No one, he told himself, could be so foolish as to accept
Judith’s poison bargain.
But he knew better, of course. The world was depressingly full of
people who would trade chaos for power, if the opportunity arose.
His best hope, he determined, was that Judith would dissolve into
the creeping black before she could find any new human sponsor, whoever
such a person might be. And surely Petra was watching, guarding against
just such a thing, assuring that the process she began when she broke from
Judith continued to its final, inevitable end.
The thought of Petra was the one thing that finally took his mind
away from the shivery chill of the Lady of the Lake. Despite Judith’s
intent, her words had had exactly the opposite effect on James. By
comparing Millie to Petra, she had shown him just how different his
feelings for the two young women really were.
The thought of Millie inspired desire, certainly, but that was a

shallow affection, a thin sheen over a puddle of more conflicted feelings
and emotions.
By comparison, thinking of Petra was like walking a tightrope
across a chasm of unimaginable, dizzying height. He might fall off the
tightrope on one side and drop to the most horrible loss imaginable—a loss
so heartbreaking and soul-crushing that he could barely conceive it. But he
might jump off the tightrope on the other side and soar into a bliss of
fulfillment so deep and wide that it was an ocean of joy.
He knew, on some level, that he was young, and idealistic, and
hopelessly love-struck. But knowing that didn’t make the feelings go
away. He couldn’t make himself believe, no matter how hard he tried, that
his love for Petra was childish. Or silly. Or merely a passing fancy. He
suspected—he knew—that even if she vanished away into Morgan’s
dimension, leaving his world forever, he would still live his entire life
thinking of her daily, missing her, pining for her silently and affectionately
through the years.
The tragedy, he began to understand, was not in missing her every
day for the rest of his life once she was gone. The tragedy was in denying
his love for her while she was still, if briefly, walking the same world as
him.
He was not, as Judith had assumed, “over” Petra.
He never would be.
He drew a deep, aching sigh, filling his lungs in the frozen stillness
of the manor house, and let it out slowly. He knew once again what he had
to do. He’d told himself it would be easier at some later date. But of
course that later date was likely never to come.
He’d done extremely difficult things in his life. He had faced
demons and horrors, confronted monstrous forces and villainous powers.
But now he felt that he would gladly face them all over again if only he
could avoid the one task that now lay before him: breaking up with
Millicent Vandergriff.
“After the holiday,” he said to himself with a firm nod, his voice
small in the tall, empty library. “No excuses, Potter. Make it happen.”
He nodded again, resolved, and fisted his right hand on his knee.
Shortly, fortunately, he heard the sweep of the opening front door,
felt a push of cold air that swayed the curtains slightly, as if they were
sighing with relief at the family’s return. Boots knocked on the hall floor,

voices echoed loudly, cheerfully, and James jumped up to join them,
sheepish at having missed the shopping trip, but grateful to no longer be
alone with his troubled, worrying thoughts.
He and Millie whiled away the midday practicing parts with the
younger children, Ariadne, Nigel, and Edmund, for their presentation of the
Triumvirate the following evening. As it turned out, Nigel was to play
Donovan the villain, Edmund took the role of Treus the hero, and Ariadne,
after some argument, filled the parts of the Marsh Hag, the Page Boy
(“Page Girl,” she amended gravely) and various other roles, mostly to
avoid having to play a romantic lead alongside her own brother—a
conundrum that James, having a sister himself, could well understand.
Millie accepted the role of Princess Astra, calling upon every ounce of her
Hufflepuppet Pals histrionics to give the part the melodramatics it
deserved. And James took on whatever parts were left as each scene
demanded, sometimes acting as the King, other times as various soldiers,
villagers, sailors, a ship’s captain, and even the raging sea monsters of the
dreaded Dagger Peninsula.
“You’re not doing it properly,” Edmund complained, breaking
character as James hulked over him, his hands raised into hooked claws.
“You’re not scary in the least. You have to be scary or else Treus won’t
overcome his fatal flaw.”
James frowned, still hunched in monster form over Treus’ boat (an
upholstered ottoman on a huge blue rug). “What’s Treus’ fatal flaw?”
Edmund rolled his eyes, but it was Nigel who spoke up, observing
from the backstage of a nearby sofa. “Everyone in a tragedy has a fatal
flaw. Treus’ flaw is his naiveté. You should know all this, shouldn’t you?”
James slouched and looked helplessly at Millie, who sat forward on
a nearby chair attempting to rework one of her old dresses into a Marsh Hag
costume for Ariadne. She glanced aside at him and shrugged. “I don’t
know how you missed that, either. It was on our Wiz Lit final last year.”
Ariadne gave James an indulgently patient look and crossed her
arms. “Treus has the fatal flaw of being naïve. He knows that Donovan, the
King’s advisor, has plans to marry Princess Astra so that he can become
viceroy when the king dies. Treus also knows that Donovan has already
used dark magic to trick the king into decreeing their marriage, against
Astra’s wishes. And yet, when Donovan sends Treus, his only rival, off on
some trumped up sea voyage, it never occurs to him that, hmm, this is

probably a ruse to get me alone on the ocean so that Donovan and the
Marsh Hag can send a magical storm to sink my ship and kill me.” She
cocked her head at him and raised her eyebrows. “Naïve.”
“I know all that,” James said, glaring up at the ceiling and raising
both hands, palms up.
“Then you know that, by sailing through the horrors of the Dagger
Peninsula to cut around the Marsh Hag’s magical storm, he is also sailing
through his own journey of growth into true manhood,” Nigel prompted in
his squeaky voice, as if reading from a cue card.
“Of course,” James said, trying to give the words a patiently weary
lilt. “Can we just get on with this? We have to get changed for the actual
play soon.”
“And that’s why the Marsh Hag’s storm follows Treus all the way
back to the castle of Seventide,” Ariadne finished, eyeing James critically.
“It’s a representation of Treus’ noble foolishness, a lesson learned too late
to save him. Or his love, the Princess Astra.”
Without looking up from her costume project, Millie said, “So
what’s Princess Astra’s fatal flaw?”
“Oh, that’s easy,” Edmund said smugly, still looking at James from
his perch on the ottoman. “Princess Astra’s flaw is that she’s impulsive.
She falls in love with Treus, who’s just some random soldier. Not a bad
thing, but an impulsive thing. Then she tries to attack Donovan with her
own letter opener when she learns he’s arranged to have Treus killed out on
the high seas. Donovan nearly cuts her with her own knife as a result.
Then, after Treus gets back to the castle and kills Donovan to save her, and
the Hag’s storm unleashes itself on the castle to kill Treus, she stays with
him instead of escaping! Totally impulsive.”
“But that’s what makes it so romantic!” Ariadne interjected, sighing
solemnly.
“Your off your onion. Getting crushed under falling walls during
your first kiss isn’t romantic,” Nigel shook his head dismissively. “It’s daft
as a drunken doxy. Escape and find yourself a new soldier, if you ask me.
One without any stupid ‘fatal flaws’.”
“How did you three learn all this?” James asked, plopping to the
ottoman next to Edmund.
“Old Mrs. Birtwistle, our tutor,” Ariadne sniffed. “Three hours of
lessons every day. Who was your tutor?”

James blinked. “Um. My mum, I guess?”
“I’d sack her, if I was you,” Ariadne shrugged dismissively.
“James is right,” Millie announced, standing and draping the dress
in her hands against Ariadne, testing the fit. “This will do until tomorrow.
For now, we should all get ready for the real play. We leave in less than an
hour.”
The rest of the evening was occupied entirely with the trip to the
famed and ancient Theatre D’Extraordinaire in central London, and the play
itself, which was nearly three hours long, including a half-hour
intermission. James had seen wizarding plays on occasion, though never a
fully magical production of the Triumvirate, and never in a theatre of the
sheer size and grandeur as the one he now entered. Decked with gilded
scrollwork, arched pillars, and flying buttresses that lined both side aisles,
the theatre appeared capable of seating approximately half the population of
London itself. The many balconies overlaid each other like drawers in a
baroque dresser, opened into terraces. None were fixed in place, but
floated, rising and lowering from the main floor like parade balloons,
studded with purple velvet seats and crowded with richly dressed patrons.
James watched as they drifted overhead, swapping places for loading and
unloading, their undersides decorated with massive frescoes of ancient
fictional scenes.
The one thing that detracted from James’ experience was the
woefully old-fashioned and hopelessly wrinkled dress robes he wore.
Putting them on in his upstairs bedroom, he had briefly mourned their
bedraggled state. Now, sidling into his seat in the grandest of the lower
balconies with the Vandergriff family, he understood just how exquisitely
ridiculous he looked amongst the coiffed finery that surrounded him. As
James passed, a fat man with a monocle flinched back from him, blinking
rapidly, as if James had flicked water into his face. The woman next to
him, resplendent in a stiff jeweled dress, her grey-pink hair piled into a
knotty beehive large enough for storks to nest in, frowned elaborately at
him, looking him unabashedly up and down.
James sighed and shook his head to himself, feeling the too-short
sleeves slap at his wrists, the moth-eaten fringe of lace flopping limply,
embarrassingly ratty. The high burgundy collar and broad lapels had likely
last been in fashion when Grandmother Weasley had been in school. Even
worse than this, however, was the sadly wrinkled state of the entire

garment, the result of spending the last several months crushed and damp in
the bottom of James’ trunk. He emitted an odor of old bananas and mould
as he walked, trying as hard as he could to shrink, to become as small as
possible, to blend right into the crushed purple velvet of the seat as he sank
into it.
“I could have let you borrow one of Bent’s old dress robes,” Millie
whispered aside at him as the huge chandeliers dimmed. “Or at least used
an ironing charm to smooth that travesty out a bit.”
“A little late for that, now, isn’t it,” James whispered back, trying to
make it sound as if he was merely bemused, rather than completely
mortified. He thought back to the look on Countess Blackbrier’s face when
he’d first come clumping down the stairs, his hair still damp from a severe,
desperate combing, without a minute to spare before loading into the
vehicles gathered along the front of the house. She hadn’t said a thing—she
was far too diplomatic for that—but her wrinkled eyes had widened
slightly, her brow raised, and her chin dipped a tick. James understood that
he had lost several points with her, and regretted it more than he might have
expected. The children, however, had been far less discreet, collapsing into
nearly hysterical laughter at the sight of James’ trailing lace frill and the
gown that stopped a full five inches short, showing his trainers and
incongruous argyle socks.
As the lights dimmed over the theatre, James finally relaxed and
sighed, sinking low in his seat. The stage shone like an illuminated jewel,
surrounded by waves and terraces of shadowed balconies, and the play
launched to life with a fanfare of horns, a trill of flutes, and a boom of
timpani. The orchestra in the pit below the stage was nearly sixty members
strong, according to the program in James’ hand, and it sounded like it.
Music filled the theatre like warm spring air, with barely any echo to dull its
effect. On the stage itself, actors sprang into motion: dozens of peasants
moved among a life-sized and perfectly captured medieval square. A line
of soldiers marched into view. And there, entering from the right, was the
King, and Donovan his royal advisor, and finally the regally beautiful
princess Astra.
James remembered the scene well from his second year at
Hogwarts, when he himself had been on stage in the guise of Treus, the
Captain of the Guard. But this was different in nearly every way. The king
was not young Tom Squallus with a pillow stuffed into his tunic. He was an

actual large man, more stocky than fat, with a true beard and a stately
demeanor and robes and crown that looked as if they’d come directly from
a museum. Donovan was a tall, beardless man with sharp, angular features,
so cunning in the very lines of his face and squint of his eyes that James had
to remind himself that this was an actor, not an actual villain scheming
against the jovial king and the young princess that followed them.
Astra, James saw, was barely older than himself. She was gingerhaired and stunningly beautiful, the pale pillar of her neck adorned with a
glittering necklace of silver and deep blue gems, flashing in the brilliant
stage lights.
Despite having been in a version of the play himself, James had
never fully grasped the story of Astra, Treus, and Donovan. He’d been far
too preoccupied with the extraneous details of production—the costume
shop and props crew, the glowing painted markers on the stage floor, and
the constant, droning repetition of rehearsals. Now, as he watched the full
production in all of its theatrical glory, he began to see why it was the
ultimate classic story of the golden age of wizard literature.
This was, of course, helped immensely by the grandeur of the
deeply enchanted production.
When Donovan manipulated the king into granting Astra as his
bride, the villain used an actual spell, conjuring a terrifyingly realistic (if
somewhat over-wrought) hex of entrancement that illuminated the entire
stage with vicious purple light and left the first few rows of patrons nodding
and woozy in their seats. When the villain sent Treus and his crew on the
ruse of a completely invented sea mission, the oily coolness of his lies was
simultaneously compelling and disturbing. Around the theatre, several
voices gasped, or cried out warnings, or angry insults at the oblivious,
conniving villain.
When the Marsh Hag welcomed Donovan into her swampy lair and
agreed to his paying request for a murderous storm, James momentarily
forgot that he was watching from a cushioned velvet seat in a crowded
theatre. He seemed to be dreaming the scene, watching from the flickering
edge of the Hag’s firelight, the stink of her cauldron and rot of fermenting
moss filling his nose as she, in all of her extravagant ugliness, proclaimed
her famous, cackling warning: “The gale ye conjure hungers great, its
appetite is hard to sate. Feed it well and bid it sleep, lest its gaze to you
retreat!”

“Of course,” Millie sniffed during the intermission as they stood in
the crowded lobby with glasses of spiced mead in their hands, James’ head
spinning dully, “every seat in the theatre is enchanted with a disbeliefsuspension charm. The longer you sit there, the more real everything on
stage seems. If they didn’t have an intermission to break things up a bit,
some of us would be charging the stage to join Treus on the Ballywynde
every time he gives his rallying speech, deadly magical storm and raging
Wraith river or not.”
“Wizards and men, forth draw ye wands and wits!” Edmund cried,
stabbing his own toy wand into the air.
“Stop!” Ariadne insisted in her most strident, motherly voice.
“You’re embarrassing yourself! Can’t you at least try to act like a proper
gentleman?”
By the time the fourth act was underway, the aforementioned
magical storm was a pall of clouds and thunder boiling in the upper reaches
of the theatre from wall to wall, flashing with gouts of bruise-coloured
lightning. Treus gave his famous rallying speech, and while no one rushed
the stage to accompany his quest, many in the audience did join in the
recitation even from the first words— “Foul Donovan! Thou traitorous
malcontent!”—some standing in their seats and raising their own wands in
the air, pointing them at the magical storm overhead. Somehow, actual
ocean waves crested and broke over the ledge of the stage, cascading into
the busy orchestra pit, as the Ballywynde circumvented the storm via the
treacherous Dagger Peninsula. It beached spectacularly on the shore of
Seventide within sight of the castle, just in time to prevent Donovan’s and
Astra’s cursed wedding. The villain was confronted and defeated by Treus’
sword, yet the castle itself quaked under the onslaught of the merciless
storm as it tirelessly hunted its focus, Treus himself.
James gasped as the cyclone tore across the stage, shattering
stained-glass windows with its icy mist and stabbing the walls with
lightning, setting tapestries afire and cracking the stone floors into heaving,
broken canyons. Treus leapt these, drawing Astra along with him, still in
her wedding gown and streaming veil, now torn by the battering gale.
Distantly, James remembered this scene from his own performance of the
Triumvirate. Then, the pedal-powered wind machine had accelerated out of
control, causing real and unexpected chaos. The scene playing out now
seemed even less staged than that. Walls tilted inward, disintegrating into

rains of brick and stone. Fire raced along the ceilings, wrenching rafters
loose and heaving them like pick-up-sticks in the hand of a child in
tantrum. And Treus wove through it all, sometimes leading Astra,
sometimes tugged forward by her, until the doomed lovers were in sight of
the castle entrance. A flaming rafter fell upon them, finally breaking the
lovers’ grasp on each other, and crushing Treus under its weight. James
simultaneously saw the remainder of the scene as both lines in a
playwright’s script, and dim, heartbreaking memories of Petra.
ASTRA [returns to Treus’ wounded side despite the
onslaught all around, pleads]: “Advance! We’re nearly free! The
castle’s doom’d, but hope prevails! O Treus, curse it not!”
James heard the line in Petra’s voice, untainted with melodrama and
hysterics, speaking as if no one was listening but he himself, her expression
stricken but stubborn with a thread of hope.
TREUS: “Dear love, I curse not hope. I’ve brave’d the
tempest’s watery wrath and fell that sorc’rer’s might. I’ve cursed
them all to gaze upon your loving face. But hope? What life I’ve
left I live in barricades of hope.”
On the stage, Treus struggled to free his arm from beneath the
burning rafter, flinging it out to grasp Astra’s hand. Blood painted his
fingers, stained the side of his face. Astra dropped to her knees as darkness
closed slowly in on them, the castle collapsing and crumbling inward,
tightening the space, making it tragically more intimate and desperate with
each moment.
Treus went on, and James mentally said the words along with him,
thinking of Petra. “Though God himself may shake this world to fall upon
itself, my love and hope remain. Depart, my dear, and leave me now: I
walk to death in peace.”
ASTRA [overcome by futility]: “Pray no, beloved!”
The Astra on-stage flung her free hand against her brow, palm out,
and sang the line with shrill hopelessness. But her voice was drowned out

in James’ mind by Petra, who claimed the words forcefully, not like an
elegy, but like a sudden plea, hoarse and breathless, the spoken equivalent
of a grasp about the shoulders, a desperate embrace that comes seconds too
late. James’ mind flashed with green, and in that flash he saw his cousin
Lucy tumbling through the air dead, heard his own scream mingling with
Petra’s.
The scene on-stage blended dizzyingly with James’ memories.
Astra was Petra, and Petra was Lucy.
ASTRA: “For months and years I’ve longed for thee
alone: my dreams the home of thy desperate love! I’ll not depart
my place at body’s side, lest unrequited dreams shall crush my
soul!”
James sat forward in his seat and spoke the final words of the play
aloud:
“Then give me a testament to love. A kiss to cure the pains
of death, this one... to stand for all.”
On-stage, Treus and Astra kissed, even as the castle finally
collapsed upon them, buried them, ended them. The lights dropped. The
entire theater vanished into perfect blackness. And James was kissed. In
the seamless dark, it was Petra’s lips on his. Strangely, disconcertingly, it
was also Lucy’s, chaste and brief and careful as a dove. Heartbreakingly, he
smelled his lost adopted cousin, the warmth of her exotic, silky black hair, a
hint of lavender soap, a tease of licorice on her breath.
And then the lights came back on, dimly, and it was Millie. Her
face was close to his still, smiling faintly, one eyebrow arched.
“Wow,” she whispered, “that suspension of disbelief charm really
worked on you, didn’t it? You were Treus for a second there." Her
eyebrow arched a notch higher. "Was I your Astra?”
James couldn’t answer. He couldn’t think quickly enough to lie.
Millie saw this on his face, but merely nodded, still smiling, and dipped her
eyes.
James had very little memory of leaving the theater.

James was, in fact, in a distracted, charm-induced daze until dinner
that evening in the grand dining room of Blackbrier Quoit. As the formal
dinner of Christmas Eve night, the event was the most ceremonious private
affair that James had ever attended. Fortunately, Millie’s brother Benton
rescued James from the embarrassment of his dress robes by raiding the
mansion’s expansive attic, tracking down one of his own old wardrobes,
and providing from it a much better, if moth-ball scented, set of robes.
James was glad to make the switch and arrived at the dinner table much
improved in both mood and appearance.
“You’ll sit between me and Grandmother Eunice,” Millie whispered
to him as they filed into the room, herself changed into a mermaid-shaped
emerald green dress and a triple string of pearls. “And you’ll be expected
to make conversation with her at certain intervals.”
“What do you mean, ‘at certain intervals’?” he whispered back, a
note of urgent worry edging into his voice. “And what am I supposed to
talk about?”
Millie gave a bland, brief shrug. “She’ll decide that. Just play
along. And answer honestly, whatever you do. Grandma Eunice can smell
a lie a mile away.”
“But how will I know when I’m supposed to do what?”
Millie frowned and blinked at him, and James was reminded that, to
her, this was just a traditional holiday dinner. “Just watch everyone else.
It’s easy.”
“Merry Christmas, one and all!” called the booming, jovial voice of
Millie’s father as he reached the head of the table, his own formal robes
resplendent with a high white collar and matching bow tie. He raised both
arms grandly, gesturing at the lines of tall chairs, the glittering crystal
glasses and goblets, glinting ranks of silver laid atop neatly folded napkins,
and glowing, moon-like plates, saucers and platters. “Do be seated, and let
us be merry!”

James tugged out his chair and sidled onto it, watching as the dozen
guests sank into their own seats, descending into easy, polite laughter and
murmured conversation. The young cousins, Ariadne, Nigel, and Edmund,
flanked their mother and father, Susan and Otto, across from Mrs.
Vandergriff. Facing James over the white table and candelabra, Millie’s
elder sister Mathilda settled in, measuring him with her overly made-up
eyes and thin smile.
Beneath James, the seat cushion was deep, covered in purple velvet,
but the back of the chair was very high and mercilessly straight, forcing him
to sit upright. He put his elbows on the table, saw that no one else was
doing so, and immediately pulled them back again, dropping his hands onto
his lap.
Muggle servants in black tuxedoes and white ties stood around the
perimeter of the room. James counted four of them, including Topham,
who stood near the outer door, and Blake, who began to circle the table,
discreetly pouring ruby wine for the adults from a large crystal decanter.
No house elves were in sight, of course, but James knew that they had to be
around somewhere, performing whatever meager roles that were still
assigned to them.
Soon enough, as the conversation progressed and the soup course
was served (cream of asparagus with gillyweed croutons), James began to
understand the protocol of the formal table. Mr. Vandergriff led the
discussion, usually with a question directed at someone else at the table
—“What think you of Bragdon Wand’s Swivenhodge chances this year,
Susan?”, or “Otto, how is your mother faring in Turkey with her trading
business?”, or “Have you seen much of Briny and the old crew since
leaving University, Benton?”—and the called upon guest would answer for
the benefit of the entire table, always in a practiced, articulate voice.
Unlike dinners at Marble Arch or the Burrow, no one interrupted anyone,
and if there was laughter, it was unfailingly polite and brief. After the
initial answer, the conversation would descend for a time into smaller,
related banters around the table. James watched to see which direction to
turn when this happened. Just when he thought it was his turn to interact
with Millie, Lady Vandergriff spoke up next to him.
“How does your father manage to care for the Black Manor at
Grimmauld Place while attending to his prodigious professional duties?”
she asked primly, dabbing the corner of her wrinkled mouth with a napkin

and ignoring the established table topic.
James turned to look at the old woman, but she merely raised her
chin and lowered her eyes to the wine goblet as she raised it in her hand,
studying its prism of crimson light.
“Oh, he um…” James began, treading as carefully as possible. The
answer, of course, was that Dad didn’t actually care for the old place, as
such. He sent Kreacher on occasion, just to give it a once over and assure
that it was all still secure. Kreacher was always content to go, of course,
since he alone seemed to harbor a sort of stubborn affection for the musty,
imposing mansion. “He has help. Our house elf makes sure it’s in good
shape, more or less, for whenever we go there.”
“House elf,” the old woman sighed to herself wistfully, ticking her
chin a notch higher, still staring into her wine. “And how often do you go
there, in fact?”
James shrugged. “A few times a year, I guess. Mum and dad prefer
the house in Marble Arch, I think. It feels a little less… you know,” he
reached for his own glass, which was filled with sparkling water, “old and
dank. Erm. If you know what I mean.” He realized that this was unlikely
to be the sort of answer that the Countess preferred, and quickly took a gulp
of water to keep from saying any more.
Lady Eunice sighed briskly and set down her own wine glass
without taking a sip. “The magical aristocracy is not like the Muggle
variety, young master James. I cannot blame your father for not knowing
this. He was not given the proper education in the responsibilities of his
position, although one expects that he might have done some research in the
years since. “ She turned an eye on James now, studying him before going
on. “The threads of magical nobility are fewer and more tenuous with
every passing generation. And yet, that only makes their remaining
significance all the greater. The Black Manor is not merely an empty
house, ‘old and dank’, as you have observed. Your father’s title—which
you shall inherit, unless he wills it to someone else, as his godfather did—is
not simply a name and a document. Magical nobility is quite different from
the Muggles in that way. Your title is a responsibility, because it is one that
comes with a great and secret power.”
James felt momentarily captured by the woman’s penetrating gaze.
“Power, Ma’am?”
She nodded, still studying him severely. “Power, indeed. But not

the power of property, nor position, nor land. The Black manor itself is a
mere symbol. No, when we of magical nobility speak of power, we mean it
in the truest and most primeval sense. We are guardians, Master James.
Our entitlement is the charge of certain deeply elemental forces. But they
have not all been maintained. Some have been lost entirely, neglected to
the point of impotence, and forgotten to history.” She sighed deeply,
resignedly.
James was intrigued despite himself. “What sort of forces?”
Lady Eunice relaxed slightly on her chair and allowed her gaze to
drift over the table. “Few speak of it. Few, even amongst my peers, respect
or remember. But once there was the Marquess of Rose whose endowment
was the rapture of love. It was that title which guarded and preserved the
tides of eros. Lost now to the ages, love still exists without the title’s noble
ministrations, and always shall, but ever more tainted and diluted, random
and untethered from its deepest cores.
“And much longer ago there was the Greene Barony, endowed with
the boundaries of ambition, moderating the supply and demand of jealousy,
rivalry, greed, and envy. Now, without its accountancy, such influences run
rampant, unchecked, overrunning human nature like an invasive weed.
“And up until the beginning of this century there was the Dukedom
of Goldenrod, guardian of the scales of courage and cowardice…”
James stared at the older woman as she spoke, not quite grasping the
magnitude of what she was saying, and yet one detail struck him. He
blurted it out, interrupting her in mid-sentence.
“But, they’re all colours…”
Lady Eunice ticked her gaze back toward him, narrowing her eyes.
She waited, watching as the significance of this realization settled over
him. James’ mind spun. Finally, he looked up at the older woman again,
meeting her gaze.
“You’re saying that Grimmauld Place isn’t just an old house,” he
said in a hushed voice. “And Black… isn’t just a name. Is it?”
Lady Eunice nodded once, slowly. “Black is the elemental colour of
the force that is your family charge.”
James blinked at her, his hair prickling. He furrowed his brow as he
asked, “But, what kind of elemental force is black?”
Lady Eunice settled against the back of her own tall chair, as if
content that James had merely asked the question.

“That, young Master Potter…” she answered, picking up her wine
goblet again, “is your duty to discover. Once the day comes and the title
passes onto you.”
James’ shoulders slumped, but his mind still whirled, considering
everything that the Countess had told him. What did it really mean?
Should he tell his dad? Would Kreacher know anything about it? And what
elemental force of human nature could possibly be signified by the colour
black?
Shaking him out of this reverie, an unexpected voice suddenly said,
“And what plans do you have, James?” It was Mr. Vandergriff, asking on
behalf of the entire table, who turned to listen.
James blinked rapidly, glancing up at the man at the head of the
table, who smiled at him expectantly.
“Er… what? Sir?” James stammered.
Millie’s older sister, Mathilda, offered him a chilly smile. “Upon
graduation from your schooling, of course. Will you perhaps be following
in the footsteps of your famous Auror father?”
“Or perhaps those of your grandfather, James the first,” Benton
suggested, grinning and elbowing Millie next to him. “If I recall, his
biggest plan upon graduating Hogwarts was to marry his school sweetie and
start a family.”
“Now don’t be gouache,” Mrs. Vandergriff chided mildly. “I’m sure
that young James has no interest in anyone’s romantic predictions.”
“Entertaining though they may be,” Mathilda suggested, still eyeing
James closely.
Millie shook her head and turned pointedly to James. “Don’t listen
to them. They’ve been scheming forever to get me married off to some
ultra eligible, peered family.”
“And apparently you qualify,” Susan, the young cousins’ mother,
confirmed with a sympathetic nod.
Benton agreed. “A member of the peerage, and not belonging to
any pureblood family.”
“Now, Benton,” Mr. Vandergriff reproached, his smile thinning
slightly.
James felt his cheeks redden as he glanced helplessly from face to
face. Millie was still turned to him, but her eyes were on her mother.
“Mummy becomes impatient with pureblood families.
She’s very

progressive that way.”
“I’m not impatient with anyone, except perhaps the lot of you at the
moment,” Mrs. Vandergriff commented primly. “I simply do not suffer the
hang-ups of some other magical households regarding our heritage, and I
harbor no shame about who knows it.”
Lady Eunice sniffed, “Quite the reverse, one might think.”
Mr. Vandergriff turned his attention to Millie. “And what of you,
my dear? Still considering a year abroad? America, perhaps?” He dropped
a quick wink to James.
“Actually,” Millie said slowly, suddenly lowering her gaze. “I might
consider going to America. But not for an extended holiday. I was thinking
of continuing my schooling there. I’ve been looking into universities.
Ilvermorny looks interesting, and Alma Aleron has a marvelous program
that I’ve become rather interested in.”
James, while glad that the attention was no longer on him, was
surprised at the response Millie’s comment elicited. The smile fell away
from Mr. Vandergriff’s face, while his wife looked both startled and
puzzled. Mathilda’s gaze sparkled with mean interest as she watched, but
Benton merely rolled his eyes and folded his napkin onto the table.
Millie’s mother asked, “More schooling, dearest? Why, whatever
for? Do you not feel your schooling at Hogwarts has been sufficient?”
Mr. Vandergriff sighed tersely, “I told you she should have gone to
Bragdon Wand.”
“No, that’s not it at all,” Millie said, sitting up straight in her chair
and looking at both of her parents. “I just… I want to do more than look
pretty and say witty things at parties.”
“Well,” Lady Eunice commented mildly, “one can’t know that until
they’ve tried.”
“Mother,” Mr. Vandergriff said, cocking his head slightly. “You’re
not helping.”
“Or,” Millie said, warming to the topic and aiming a pointed glance
at her grandmother, “sitting around having fancy dinners while real people
are serving us and then leaving here to go out and live real lives.”
“Oh, now this is interesting,” Mathilda said, her eyes avid as she
leaned slightly over the table. “What sort of ‘real’ lives are they leading,
Millicent?”
Benton shook his head at Mathilda. “Don’t pretend that you didn’t

go through a phase exactly like this.”
“It’s not a phase,” Millie said, firming her jaw, her own cheeks
reddening now. “And I’ll tell you what they do. They write plays, and
make music. They go on daring adventures. And they… well they build
things.”
“Build things?” Mathilda repeated, barely concealing the mocking
glee in her voice.
Lady Eunice recoiled in mild alarm. “Perhaps I am mistaken, but
that sounds an awful lot like manual labour.”
“I don’t mean building things with my hands,” Millie said,
exasperated, “Although I’m not above that. I mean… designing things.
Planning, and plotting, and drafting buildings. Things like museums and
cathedrals, hotels and terminals. All on paper, where there are no
limitations. And then watching it all come to life before your eyes!”
Mathilda blinked owlishly at her sister across the table, a mixture of
teasing amazement etched onto her narrow face. “Do you mean
architecture? Is that what you’re on about?”
Their mother sighed. “I seem to recall that it was ‘veterinary
medicine’ in your case, Mathilda,” she said, laying a weary hand over her
eyes.
“But,” Lady Eunice interjected, perplexed, “Architecture is dwarf
work. I may not know much about common workaday life, but I do know
that.”
“Not in the Muggle world,” Millie said, steeling herself.
“Oh, bloody Nora,” her father groaned under his breath.
“More claret, M’Lord,” Blake suggested deftly, pouring wine into
the man’s nearly empty goblet.
Mrs. Vandergriff rallied herself. “Now, Millicent, we like to be as
open-minded as any modern wizarding family…”
“A human can be an architect in the Muggle world,” Millie insisted
stubbornly. “A woman can work, just like a man. Ask our new
‘servants’!” She nodded toward Blake and Topham. Blake merely stood at
attention, but Topham’s gaze fluttered at the suddenly watchful faces.
Millie went on, “In their world, anyone can be anything they want.”
“And yet, somehow, they choose to be servants,” Lady Eunice
observed archly, apparently to the candelabra.
“I don’t care what any of you say,” Millie proclaimed, calling on

every ounce of her lofty upbringing and melodramatic dignity. “I shall go
to America, attend Alma Aleron University, and I shall be an architect if I
wish. Even if it means working in the Muggle world.”
This statement was met with a sharp gasp from Mrs. Vandergriff and
awkward, stunned silence around the table. James could hear the faint
clatter of dishes in the kitchen far below. Finally, young cousin Edmund
spoke up for the first time, taking advantage of the break in conversation.
“Millie, after we do the Triumvirate, will you do a Hufflepuppet pals
show for us tonight?” he asked eagerly, leaning over the table.
No one answered. Mr. Vandergriff coughed lightly and pushed
away from the table. Lady Vandergriff dabbed her napkin at the corner of
her mouth and glanced around brightly, diplomatically ignoring the
awkward silence.
Edmund looked at James and frowned quizzically. “What? Did she
leave the Voldy puppet back at school or something?”

14. THE ELVEN UPRISING
An hour later, still reeling from the dinner conversation, James was
surprised to see just what a production the miniature presentation of “The
Triumvirate” had turned out to be. The children, with Millie’s help, had
raided the attic wardrobes and returned with armloads of colourful old
robes, feathered hats, boots, belts, swords and scabbards, ribbons and
medals, and various other costuming. A small, makeshift stage had been
erected in front of the fire, bordered by actual red velvet curtains hung from
an enchanted, floating rod.
Somewhat more disconcerting were the number of people in
attendance. Besides the entirety of the family, including many relatives
who had arrived only that night, all of the servants were also invited to
watch the performance. Balor the Cyclops was there, towering over
everyone else in his intimidating slate grey uniform, his chauffer’s hat still
pressed down low onto his huge cranium. James once again wondered how
the skinny giant could be a Cyclops. The whole point of being such a
creature, he thought, was that Cyclopi had a single giant eye that could see
everything, including secrets and trickery. This is why, in ancient history,
they had often been employed as bodyguards by wizarding royalty, since no

plot or subterfuge escaped their monocular notice. Balor, however,
appeared to have two perfectly normal-sized eyes, if solemnly cold and
stoic, beneath the black brim of his ever-present cap. He did not sit, but
stood stiffly behind the family, his back to a window.
Across from the chauffer, the Muggle servants lined up behind a
buffet table covered with platters of cucumber sandwiches, desserts,
cupcakes, a crystal punch bowl, and a very large Christmas pudding, so
sticky and redolent with sherry that James could smell it from the stage.
Blake sat behind the table in one of the chairs provided, along with
several other servants, cooks, and maids. He caught James’ eye and cocked
a subtly sardonic eyebrow at him, seeming to refer to the entire room, the
stage, the enormous pudding, and the immensely well-dressed finery of the
witches and wizards as they settled into their seats. James remembered the
smell of cigarettes and beer from the pub that Blake had taken them to the
previous night. Millie calls this ‘slumming’, the young man had said.
Clearly, this was the opposite for him, and the irony was palpable.
Dismissing James, Blake leaned back and threw his arms around the maids
on either side, crossing one polished black shoe over his knee. The older
maid elbowed his arm away from her. Topham, who refused to sit, cleared
his throat meaningful in Blake’s direction. Blake nodded obediently and sat
up straight again, as if at attention. Topham accepted this with a satisfied
nod, turning his attention back to the room at large.
As the children, along with James and Millie, took the stage, the
lights of the room dimmed to shadows and the assembly applauded
dutifully. Magical spotlights lit the stage from concealed wands. Most of
the family and guests smiled with indulgent good cheer, the mens’ cheeks
flushed with brandy, the women sitting ramrod straight in their fine dresses,
their gloved hands folded atop their knees. As the play began, the servants
watched intently, many with brows knitted, themselves unfamiliar with the
story, of course, and somewhat befuddled by the children’s condensed,
meandering version of it.
James and Millie both managed several different roles, as well as
performed clumsy but necessary scene and costume changes while an
antique, charmed Victrola played accompanying musical overtures. They
were just nearing Treus’ famous rallying speech, with Edmund standing in
his tri-corner feathered cap on the “ship’s bow” of the upholstered ottoman,
when James, standing at attention behind the ottoman as one of Treus’

sailors, saw movement out of the corner of his eye, in the dimness just offstage.
Beneath the buffet table, half hidden by its draped bunting, a house
elf hunkered. James recognized her as the very one that he had seen that
morning, outside the dining room door, watching Blake with undisguised
contempt. Now, her bulbous eyes were turned up, as if she could see
through the bottom of the table to the goods arrayed on its surface.
As James watched, the elf snapped her fingers.
On the table, the enormous Christmas pudding rocked on its platter.
Slowly, subtly, the pudding rose an inch off the table, resting on a cushion
of magic.
James blinked at the elf, alarm rising in his chest. Her eyes squinted
with grim malice as she glanced out over the darkened room, toward the
seated guests and family members. The pudding edged across the lip of the
table, then floated into the shadows. None of the servants noticed, being
too intent on Edmund’s rousing speech.
Amazingly, inexplicably, the elf seemed prepared to dump the
pudding onto the floor, or worse, onto the very head of someone in the
audience. Blake, being seated nearest the pudding, would get the blame.
With a start, James understood: the elf intended to sabotage Blake, and all
of the Muggle servants by association.
James lifted his wand, drew a breath to call a warning, but the elf
saw him. Her gaze sharpened, and she snapped her fingers again. James’
wand hand twisted away, pointing toward the opposite wall. He gasped in
surprise.
“Sailors and men!” Edmund cried, jabbing his own toy wand toward
the ceiling, “forth draw ye wands and wits to fight the violent seas this
night!” The family members and guests joined in, jubilantly reciting the
famous lines with him: “That by the morn we'll hold our win, or lie in beds
of ocean sand: our beaten glory’s shrine!”
A cheer went up throughout the room. Even the Muggle servants
grinned and applauded, if a bit bemusedly. James tried to call out a warning
as the pudding lofted through the darkness over Mrs. Vandergriff’s
shoulder, but his own voice was lost in the happy commotion. He struggled
to aim his wand, but his arm was wrested firmly away, captured in an
invisible vice, pointing in the opposite direction at a high window.
Pointing, in fact, toward Balor, who stood against the glass like a

lanky statue.
And suddenly, with perfect clarity, James thought he understood the
Cyclops’ strange secret.
He stopped resisting the elf’s magical influence and pointed his
wand at the tall man-shape instead. With a flick of his wrist, he muttered
the first incantation he had ever learned: “Wingardium leviosa!”
Balor’s chauffer hat popped off his head, freeing the man’s whispy
white hair in a dandelion-like fluff. More importantly, however, it revealed
the huge, closed eye in the centre of the Cyclops’ high forehead. Balor’s
two human eyes snapped shut as the giant Cyclops eye opened, revealing an
inky black orb the size of a lemon. The eye swiveled immediately toward
the buffet table, homing in on the elf’s secret subterfuge.
“STOP!” Balor called, his voice a deep bellow that overrode the
happy cheers, cutting through them like a knife. His arm pistoned up,
pointing one long, bony finger at the elf beneath the table. Her own eyes
bulged even more prominently in shock as the entire assembly turned to
look, to spy her in her hiding place.
But it was too late.
Mrs. Vandergriff’s sudden scream of surprise was partially muffled
by the splat of the pudding as it dropped onto her, breaking over her head
and squelching down her front, onto her lap, and all around the sofa on
which she sat.
Mr. Vandergriff leapt to his feet, clapping his hands once so that the
overhead chandelier flared instantly aglow, bathing the room with light.
Every eye except Balor’s swept toward Mrs. Vandergriff as she arose with a
choked gasp, flinging gobbets of pudding in all directions. The people
seated nearest her gasped and recoiled, eyes wide.
On the makeshift stage, Millie clapped both hands over her mouth,
her eyes boggling at her mother’s predicament. James at first thought that
she was horrified at the sight, but then he saw her shoulders convulse and
realized that she was, just barely, restraining a bray of shocked laughter.
Mrs. Vandergriff shook her head, her own eyes blazing. Then, with
a decisive jerk, she turned toward the buffet table. The elf had not moved.
Her knobby shoulders slumped and her gaze dropped to the floor, but the
set of her scowl, defiant and hopeless, did not change.
“Heddlebun,” Mrs. Vandergriff called hoarsely, her voice only
faintly trembling. “Would you please step out so I can address you

properly?”
The elf complied with no hesitation. She seemed to know what was
coming. Eyes still on the floor, she sidled from beneath the table and
silently approached her mistress.
Mrs. Vandergriff raised her hands and, with as much dignity as she
could muster, daintily tugged at the fingertips of her left ivory glove, which
was now smeared with chocolate, studded with wet crumbs. She withdrew
it, allowed it to dangle in her right hand, and then dropped it into the
waiting hands of the elf.
It was Millie’s father who spoke next, his voice low. “Heddlebun, I
don’t know why you’ve done this. And, quite honestly, I don’t believe I
care. You’ve served this family for as long as I can remember. But you are
a free elf now. It breaks my heart to say it, but please be off the premises by
midnight tonight. Am I understood?”
Heddlebun’s voice was small and calm. “Yes, Master.”
“I’m not your master anymore,” Mr. Vandergriff said. The words
seemed to pain him. “Please, take your glove and go.”
“Yes, M’lord.”
James thought that Heddlebun might offer some explanation for her
action, but she did not. Holding the glove draped across her hands as if it
were a dead frog, the elf turned and threaded for the door, her large feet
making no noise on the carpet. Topham looked down at her, and then away,
averting his eyes as if from a rude gesture. Mr. Vandergriff tilted an eye at
Balor, who nodded gravely. Without a word, the tall Cyclops retrieved his
cap from a nearby chair and moved to follow the elf, apparently to assure
that she vacated as ordered. Heddlebun sensed this and paused at the door,
waiting for Balor to escort her. She glanced back only once, but not at the
Cyclops. Instead, her gaze landed on James, briefly but unmistakably.
There was blame in her glare, but it was cold, strangely emotionless.
James couldn’t help feeling sorry for the elf, in spite of the mess that
she had made. Mr. Vandergriff may not wish for any explanation, but
James thought that her intention had been painfully clear. Heddlebun had
resorted to one final, desperate measure to regain her duties from the
Muggle servants.
Instead, she had lost her service entirely.
Blake, for one, seemed to understand this. He watched the elf go
with a placid expression, then looked askance at James. Silently, he mimed

wiping a bead of sweat from his brow, and then winked. There was
something conspiratorial in the gesture, as if James and Blake had somehow
plotted for the elf to be sacked, rather than merely watched it happen.
James frowned and shook his head.
Many voices began to speak now, in low, urgent tones. Millie still
had her hands clamped over her mouth, but she seemed to have lost the urge
to laugh. She swiveled her eyes toward James, speechless at what had
transpired.
“I’m fine,” Mrs. Vandergriff stated over the rabble of voices. “I’m
fine, truly. It’s nothing that a good tergeo charm won’t fix. I shall summon
Gennywik as soon as the play is completed. No, I won’t hear a word of it,
Topham. You stay and enjoy the remainder of the performance. It is, I
daresay, just coming to the good bit.”
Much to the consternation of her husband and their guests, Mrs.
Vandergriff composed herself, brushed futilely at the mess on her shoulders
and skirts, and then lowered back to her seat on the sofa, crossing her
gloved right hand over her bare left.
There was a long, pregnant pause as the rest of the room stood by
awkwardly, unsure how to proceed.
“The Lady has spoken,” Mr. Vandergriff nodded briskly, changing
his expression to a determined smile. “And so it shall be. Carry on then,
loves! Lights, please.” He clapped his hands again, and the chandelier
snuffed itself, plunging the room back into dimness.
On the stage, Edmund still stood atop his ottoman boat, his face
blank in the spotlight.
“Shall I…” he asked in a stage whisper, looking around at Millie
and James, “shall I begin again?”
“I suggest we skip directly to the fight scene with Donovan,” Millie
whispered with a hard glint in her eye, cocking a glance at James. “And do
let’s make it a good one.”

James lay in bed that night listening to the low crackle of the fire in
the hearth, staring up at the dim shadows of the ceiling. He couldn’t sleep.
His mind was full of chasing, whirling thoughts: the inexplicable sensation
of Petra’s kiss during the climactic moment at the theatre; the Black estate
and its mysterious, portentous title; the sacking of Heddlebun the elf in
favor of paid, human servants.
The latter debacle had led to muttered discussion later that night,
with the men gathered secretively in the den for cognac and cigars,
discussing a word that James had never heard before.
“It’ll come up for vote, this Wexit business. It’s inevitable,” the
Ministry official with pork-chop sideburns said matter-of-factly. “It’s the
direction of the future. Britain must lead the charge.”
Mr. Vandergriff remained unconvinced. “I don’t know if it should
come to that. It’s a monumental step, the entirety of wizarding Britain
exiting the Vow of Secrecy. There is no reversing from that decision,
should it come to pass.”
“And yet, I wonder if there is any hope in fighting it?” Benton
suggested, his voice uncharacteristically somber. “You heard what
happened at Hogwarts on First Night. A Muggle family actually drove
straight into the courtyard, purely by accident. The lot of them wandered
into the Great Hall, for heaven’s sake. Ask James here, he’ll tell you all
about it.”
James didn’t wish to recount the event, and didn’t need to. The
story had made its way into the Daily Prophet, of course, and become
national news.
“Mark my words,” the Ministry official insisted, raising a single,
pudgy finger. “Wexit will come to vote, and it will pass. We cannot wait
for the Vow to crumble down around our shoulders. This Elven uprising
business is just the start. We must act now to minimize and control the
revelation while we still can.”
James thought on the man’s words in the darkness of his room,
unsure what to make of them, unsure if he agreed or not, knowing that
Benton was probably right in saying that it didn’t really matter; the
momentum was begun. The Vow was indeed crumbling.
And what, exactly, was the “Elven uprising”?
A low laugh echoed from beneath the bedroom door, as if from a

long way off. James glanced toward the door, saw the narrow band of
candlelight beneath it. It was unbroken. No one was moving in the hall
outside.
He dismissed the sound, returning reluctantly to his sleepless
reverie, but a moment later the sound came again, and this time it was
accompanied by a shrill whisper.
After a moment’s consideration, James slipped to the floor in his
pajamas and padded barefoot to the door. He gripped the brass doorknob
and opened the door just enough to peek out.
The hallway was long, decked with gilt-framed portraits, flickering
wall-sconces, and low sofas and side tables. At the end nearest the
staircase, a figure stood half-hidden within an open bedroom door. It was
Millie’s room, James recognized, but the figure standing there was not
Millie.
Frowning in consternation, he recognized the shape as Blake. The
young man was murmuring in a low voice, no longer dressed in his formal
coat and tails. Now, he wore a leather jacket and jeans. Millie’s voice was
thin and secretive, tittering with laughter. James could make out no words.
After only a moment, Blake stepped back to make room for Millie. She
exited her bedroom dressed in a heavy jumper and winter hat. Closing her
bedroom door with exaggerated care, she bounced lightly on her toes, and
then pushed Blake playfully toward the staircase. Together, they crept
down and out of sight.
James felt completely stymied. He stared down the now-empty hall
feeling a mixture of confusion, jealousy, and surprised spite. What were
they up to? Why hadn’t she told him about it, much less invited him
along?
Wounded resentment arose in place of his confusion, bringing a
flush to his cheeks and pressing his lips into a firm line.
Leaving the bedroom door ajar, he retreated to the enormous
wardrobe, yanked out his coat, pocketed his wand, shoved his bare feet into
his trainers, and crept quickly out into the hall, closing his own door as
quietly as possible.
Blake and Millie were in the main entrance hall when he spied them
again from the shadows of the landing. They were still whispering as Blake
swung open the front door, heavy but silent on its well-oiled hinges. Cold
air carried a raft of snowflakes into the entryway. They alit on Millie’s hair

and hat as she followed the young man outside. With a faint clunk, the door
closed behind them.
James trotted lightly down the steps, the confused umbrage in his
chest heating into a boiling cauldron. A set of tall windows stood on either
side of the front doors, each glazed with silvery frost. Leaning so close that
his breath fogged the glass, James peered out.
An automobile stood on the curving drive, its exhaust puttering
white breath as Blake opened the passenger door for Millie. The car was
not new, but it was low and muscular, clearly immaculately cared for,
shining a deep midnight blue, with fat racing tyres. Blake closed Millie’s
door quietly, then rounded the front of the car swiftly, drawing a hand
lovingly across the bonnet before dropping into the driver’s seat. A
moment later, as the door swung shut, the car surged forward, crunching on
the snow.
James could scarcely believe what he was seeing. She was sneaking
out again, and this time without telling even him! Would she and Blake go
to the same place that they had all gone the previous night? Why were they
driving Blake’s fancy sports car this time? What was Blake’s intention with
the rich blonde witch? Worse, what was her intention with him?
If only there was a way to find out.
James cast anxiously around the entry hall. A large coatroom stood
on one side. On the other was a narrow door, closed but unlocked. For lack
of any better idea, James took a lunging step forward and grasped the
handle, yanking the door open.
It was a utility closet. A vacuum cleaner stood in the centre,
surrounded by shelves of cleaning supplies, folded serving towels, feather
dusters, spray-cans of furniture polish, a rack of hanging black coats for the
servants to wear when greeting guests in bad weather, and a leaning
collection of mops and brooms.
James began to close the door in frustration, and then stopped, his
eye catching on the brooms.
Was it possible? He scanned the wooden handles. One of them was
more curved than the others, dull with age but polished a deep chestnut,
with a small brass plate screwed to one side of the handle. On the plate,
curlicue letters spelled: WoodSprite ’75.
James had never heard of a broom called a WoodSprite. He didn’t
even know which century the “’75” referred to. He only knew, with

immense relief, that the Vandergriffs had consigned someone’s ancient
broom to the servants for mere sweeping. He grabbed it, yanked it from its
fellows with a clatter, and leapt for the front door.
It was bitterly cold outside, with fresh snowflakes falling silently
through the dome of interwoven trees that canopied the Vandergriff’s
peninsula estate. James barely felt the wintry air as he tugged the door
closed behind him and straddled the antique broom.
The taillights of Blake’s car were mere red pinpricks in the distance,
obscured by the falling snow. They brightened momentarily as James
watched, showing a tap of the car’s brakes. Then, the vehicle turned off the
tree-lined drive, accelerated, and vanished into the Muggle neighborhood
beyond.
James kicked off from the mansion’s portico and drove the broom
forward as fast as it would go. The WoodSprite felt like a Flobberworm
compared to his own ThunderStreak, yet James knew that it would be
plenty fast enough to catch up to Blake’s car and keep pace with it. If, that
was, he could overtake them before losing them in the warren of
neighborhoods beyond the shore road.
Snowflakes streamed past, stinging James’ cheeks and blurring his
vision, but he only squinted and pressed onward, swooping low along the
narrow drive, feeling the pulse of the trees as they rushed overhead. The
fringe of forest began to close ahead of him as he watched, hiding the
Vandergriff’s drive from the cul-de-sac beyond. James hunkered low and
drew in his elbows, and still he had to slalom dangerously through the
contracting trees, bursting out of them only a moment before they twined
firmly together, completely blocking the drive.
With a kick and a swerve, James angled upward, above the glow of
the streetlamps, and sped into the night, following the boulevard below.
Blake’s car was no longer in sight.
Angry panic throttled James’ thoughts, but he merely leaned lower
over the broom and pressed onward, glaring down at the snowy, illuminated
road below. At the junction, he glanced frantically from right to left.
There, much further away than he expected, was the same pair of taillights
just turning right, passing behind a grand house. James kicked forward
again in pursuit.
Soon enough, he caught up to the car, slowed, and followed it more
sedately, staying well above the light of the streets below, watching as the

car ambled through more junctions, tooled past flashing traffic lights, and
eventually made its way into a nearby town, where it began to cruise the
streets in a seemingly random, meandering path.
This went on for some time.
James pressed higher as he flew over apartment complexes,
churches, office buildings, and parking garages. Snow gathered in his hair
and eyelashes. He grew cold, and then began to shiver so hard that his
hands shook on the broom handle. And still, far below, the sleek blue car
drove on. It never really arrived anywhere, although it slowed often,
pausing longer than necessary at stop signs and intersections, random
corners and parks. Several times it pulled off to the side of the road and
stopped entirely. And yet, as James watched, Millie and Blake never got
out to approach any of the establishments they parked near. The car doors
never even opened. Minutes would creep by as James shivered violently far
overhead, chilled and crusted with snow, and then, invariably, the car would
pull forward again, merge onto the street, and continue placidly on.
James tried very hard not to imagine what Millie and Blake were
doing in the car during those parked minutes. In his mind, he heard
Scorpius Malfoy sneering at him: “You really aren’t that thick, are you,
Potter?”
Finally, after what felt like hours, numb with cold and miserable
with sick jealousy, James realized he was following the blue car back into
the shoreline neighborhood overlooking the sea. He followed more closely
now, caring less if he was seen, wanting only to be back indoors, to shake
the crusted snow from his hair, and wallow in the stew of confused,
indignant anger that now filled him from head to toe.
The car’s headlights illuminated the cul-de-sac guardrail, but only
for a moment. With a silent shimmy, the guardrail shot upwards and
transformed into the wrought-iron gate of Blackbrier Quoit. The blue car
surged through, and James swooped to follow.
He considered whether he should confront them right then and there,
as they emerged in front of the mansion. It would be perversely satisfying,
he knew, but it would also mean admitting that he had jealously followed
them, and been miserably frozen and humiliated in the act. He decided,
with some reluctance, to hang back, to swoop up toward the interlaced
dome of bare branches high overhead, watching down silently as the car
angled onto the curving drive, glinting in the glow of the mansion’s entry.

Some tiny, timid part of him suggested that he should be grateful for
this night. He had already decided to break up with Millie once the holiday
was over, hadn’t he? He had only to come up with a good reason. This
made things all the simpler, didn’t it?
And yet this voice was drowned out by the boiling, affronted rage in
his chest, almost but not quite concealing the ocean of wounded pride
beneath.
The car’s engine idled, but the doors still did not open for several
minutes. James’ fury grew with the intensity of his discomfort. The snow
was thinner here as it filtered through the dome of trees, but the air was
nearly arctic with cold. James’ breath fogged the air, shivering violently.
His hands were numb on the WoodSprite’s handle.
Finally, both of the car doors swung open. Blake and Millie stepped
out into the dim glow of the portico lamps, looked at each other over the
car’s roof, and then moved to meet at the rear. Blake took Millie’s hands
briefly, and then turned to the car. He opened the boot, swung up the lid,
and withdrew something from inside. It was small and squarish, a gift of
some kind. James nearly vibrated with rage as he watched the young man
offer it to Millie. She accepted it, looked at it, and then threw her arms up
around his neck, still holding the square object in one hand. She hugged
him, and then, as James observed with a wave of blinding, affronted rage,
she kissed him.
The boot lid banged shut suddenly, slamming so hard that it rocked
the car and sent echoes across the snowy garden.
Blake and Millie both jumped back from the car, startled.
James saw this with some satisfaction before realizing that his wand
was in his fist, aimed at the car. His knuckles were white, squeezing hard
enough to make the tendons stand out on the back of his hand.
A light popped on in an upstairs window of the mansion. Below,
Blake saw this and swore urgently under his breath.
“Hide!” Millie rasped, and yanked her wand from a pocket. She
waved it at the car and muttered a brief spell. The car wavered, and then
took on the ephemeral color and texture of the snowy drive beneath it,
effectively vanishing from view. James marveled reluctantly. He himself
had never perfected the Disillusionment spell.
Millie ducked behind a stone balustrade at the base of the steps at
the exact same moment that the curtains of the lit upstairs window twitched

aside. A silhouetted figure appeared, peering down through the glass.
From his angle high above, James could see that it was Mathilda, Millie’s
older sister. She gazed this way and that, her suspicious eyes narrowed.
Then, apparently seeing nothing out of order, she withdrew.
Far below, Millie peered up from behind the balustrade. Next to her,
a shadow moved. Blake was hiding there with her.
James fumed furiously. Wand still in hand, he flicked it and
muttered a spell of his own.
A snowball arose spinning from a drift near the steps. It hovered for
a moment, and then arced up to the lit window, bashing against the glass
with an audible rattle.
“What the bloody…!” Blake hissed, standing up to look around,
annoyed and confused. Millie pulled him back down, but peered up herself,
her eyes squinting. She was quicker, and knew what to look for. After only
a moment, she glanced up toward the tree canopy just as James summoned
another snowball.
“James?!” she called up in a harsh whisper.
James flicked his wand. The snowball arced toward Mathilda’s
window and bashed itself to powder.
Blake followed Millie’s gaze, spying James overhead. “It’s your
boyfriend?” he asked, annoyance and amusement mingling in his voice.
“James!” Millie rasped again, stepping out from the shadows.
“Come down here! What in purple blazes are you doing!?”
James firmed his jaw and heaved a deep sigh. Resignedly, he
swooped down and jumped to the top portico step as Millie ran up to join
him.
“What are you doing?” she demanded again, so angrily that James’
own rage was dampened momentarily.
“What am I doing?” he rallied, standing up straight and hefting the
WoodSprite between them like a shield. “What are you doing? Sneaking
out and… and… and… getting on with… with…!” He flapped a hand
vaguely, disgustedly in Blake’s direction. For his own part, Blake stood in
the shadows at the bottom of the steps, arms crossed, a look of weary
impatience on his face.
For a moment, Millie appeared angrily confused. And then an
expression of dawning realization descended over her face. Her eyes
narrowed. In a low voice, she seethed, “You think I was copping off with

him?!”
“Well!” James blinked, and faltered slightly. “Well, weren’t you?”
“James!” she hissed, her face going livid. “He’s almost ten years
older than me! He’s a university student, studying industrial design and
engineering! I’ve been begging him for months to teach me what he’s
learning! We spent the night driving around looking at architecture!
Look!”
She thrust an object toward him. It was the squarish gift that Blake
had just given her. James recoiled slightly, then glanced down at it, saw
that it was a fat book, and read the cover: HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURAL
DRAFTING & DESIGN, Volume 1.
“But,” James said, still staring at the book’s cover. “But, but… you
kissed him!” He glanced up at her in time to see her eyes roll in angry
impatience.
“I kissed him on the cheek! He’s like a brother to me! You really
think I would… I would…” She turned her head to look down at Blake, so
fast that her blonde hair flung out beneath her hat. “Do you really think I
would betray you like that? With him!?”
“Hey, now,” Blake said, managing to look affronted.
James was about to respond when the unmistakable sound of an
opening door interrupted him. Blake leapt out of sight behind the
balustrade again as a band of light spread down the steps, brightly
illuminating Millie and James.
“Well,” a voice called, and James was not at all surprised to hear a
nasty smile in it. “What do we have here? Out for a romantic evening
stroll, are we? Mother and Father will be just thrilled to know that you two
are so… engaged.”
Millie didn’t even look toward the door. Her eyes locked onto
James’ with a degree of furious pleading that took him a split-second to
decipher. It wasn’t the fact that she’d snuck out for the night with Blake, a
servant, that she was suddenly terrified of having discovered. It was that
she’d been out with him studying Muggle architecture.
James needed barely a second to decide what he had to do.
“Yes,” he said, not breaking eye contact with Millie. “And it was all
my idea.”
Millie’s eyes widened another fraction, but she managed,
miraculously, not to gasp.

James finally looked up at Mathilda, not thinking, merely allowing
instinct to take over. “I love this girl, you see. Millie,” he looked down at
her again, at her speechless, bulging eyes. “I’m completely smitten by you.
I can’t be without you. I’ve brought you out here this night, under this
moon, to tell you that.”
He glanced upwards hopefully, tried to locate the moon through the
lacework of trees and the pall of drifting snow. No moon was visible at all.
Mathilda, fortunately, seemed oblivious of this fact.
“Really, now,” she stated flatly, cocking her head and placing one
fist against her hip, causing her night robes to sway.
“But it’s too soon for you, Millie,” James went on loudly,
interrupting, marveling slightly at his own inspired temerity. Fleetingly, he
wondered if he was channeling Zane Walker. “I fear that you’re not ready
to respond to my… er… romantic overtures. Go, Millie. Go!”
He dropped his eyes and flung the WoodSprite down the steps. It
clattered nonsensically, and James noticed, with a moment of distraction,
that while Blake’s car was disillusioned to invisibility, it still puttered a
dancing puff of visible smoke from its idling tailpipe. “GO!” James cried
again, raising his voice and throwing an arm over his eyes in a burst of
hysterical inspiration. “Go to your sister. I will await you. And when the
time comes—indeed, if it ever comes—that you are ready to love me as I
love you…”
His motivation faltered. He glanced aside with one eye toward
Millie, who was staring at him with undisguised, gape-jawed amazement.
He glared at her meaningfully, and then flicked his eyes toward the open
doorway and the suspiciously watching Mathilda. GO, he mouthed.
Millie blinked rapidly, and then seemed to recover herself. Her
experience with the Hufflepuppet Pals took over, and she replied, “Yes, I
must leave you, James. It’s too soon for me. But… but…”
“But I will await your word,” James encouraged, nodding, urging
her away with his eyes. “And your love! Never fear! Never doubt!”
Millie backed up the steps slowly, somewhat awkwardly, toward the
waiting shape of Mathilda, who watched the scene with narrowed eyes and
thin lips. When Millie reached her sister, moved into the warmth of the
open door, she spun on her heel and threw her arms around the taller
woman.
“Oh, Mattie,” she cried, her voice muffled against her sister’s thin

breast.
Mathilda looked down at Millie in surprise, her eyes still narrowed,
her brows high on her forehead. Then, tentatively, she put her arms around
her. It was an awkward gesture, like a stork attempting a card trick, but
apparently genuine enough. She patted Millie’s shoulder and the back of
her head, and then raised her gaze to James, her lips pursed.
“You Potters,” she said with a curt shake of her head. “Much too
brash for polite society. It seems that you’ve bruised poor Millicent’s
sensitivities. I do hope you’ve learned an important lesson.”
James still couldn’t tell if the older woman was being quite serious
or if she was, perhaps, goading him. He didn’t really care. He simply
nodded in dejection and dropped his eyes, hoping that Mathilda wouldn’t
hear the gentle putter of the idling car, or notice its phantom exhaust, or
wonder, for that matter, why James had been holding one of the servants’
castoff, antique brooms.
A moment later, thankfully, the women’s footsteps retreated back
inside the house and the door swung slowly closed, cutting off the band of
golden light from inside.
Without raising his head, James flicked his eyes up in time to see the
door snick shut. He listened for the bolt to shunt into place. When it didn’t,
he assumed that he was still allowed inside, nominally.
“Now that,” Blake sighed calmly, emerging from his hiding place,
“is what I call a royal cock-up.”
“Shut up,” James muttered blandly. He retreated partway down the
steps, retrieved the old broom from the shadows, brushed off the snow, and
climbed dejectedly back up toward the front door.
Blake spoke again, this time in a voice both taut and smug, freezing
James in his tracks. “I would have won her anyway, you know. Even if
you hadn’t proved yourself to be a jealous, clumsy little berk. Just so you
know. I didn’t need your help.” He was smiling as he spoke.
James didn’t look back at the older man, but his mind whirled,
clouded with impotent rage, choked with jealousy. He could think of
nothing to say. No comeback came to mind, no retort or pithy, withering
insult. He considered using his wand to curse the arrogant Muggle git, or,
failing that, to hurl himself down the steps and knock the bastard down.
But even this impulse was overcome by numbing weariness and cold.
Instead, he simply pocketed his wand and said the only thing that

came to mind.
“Good luck driving home in your invisible car.”
And he opened the mansion’s door, felt the push of warm air against
his cheeks, stepped inside, and shot the bolt behind him. Through the
window beside the door, he briefly saw Blake at the bottom of the steps, the
grin gone from his face, groping blindly, clumsily for his precious car.
The women had already gone upstairs to their bedrooms. James was
quite glad.

The train ride back to Hogsmeade was awkward. James found that
he missed seeing his family over the break, and took some minor, jealous
solace in Albus’ and Rose’s retelling of the holiday back home and at the
Burrow. He avoided Millie, who rode in a different compartment some way
up the train, but knew that he had to talk to her eventually. They had hardly
spoken since leaving Blackbrier Quoit in the back of the family’s limousine,
and when they did it was for mere practical necessity. They both seemed to
know that it was over between them. All that remained was the actual
breaking up, which James sensed (with no small foreboding) was his
responsibility. He didn’t want to do it. He wished it could merely be over
without any of the messy, awkward, official stuff. But she seemed to be in
prim waiting mode, knowing it was coming, expecting it, even reveling in a
sort of perverse anticipation.
Rose had no patience for James’ predicament. “You’re just a typical
boy. All eager as beavers when it comes to the snogging, but thick as
paving stones when it comes to talking about feelings like actual human
beings. Next thing, you’ll be blaming her just for having feelings, like it’s
some sort of female curse or something, while you act all high and mighty
about being an emotionally constipated, coddled, stuck up little mummy’s
boy!”

“Things not going so well between you and Scorpius again, eh?”
James nodded wisely.
“Shut up.”
“I thought you two were back together again after he bought you
that necklace for Christmas?”
Rose’s lips tightened and her eyes narrowed. “His mum bought it
and gave it to him to give to me. She even wrapped it and signed his name
to the card. He says Christmas gifts are ‘the woman’s responsibility’.” She
glared aside at James accusingly, her eyes nearly sparking.
“Don’t look at me,” James said, raising both hands. “I didn’t even
buy Millie any Christmas gift.” He realized, a moment too late, that this
didn’t really make his case.
Rose crossed her arms like a shield and nodded once, firmly. “No
wonder Millie’s had it with you. You go find her right now and set her free
of you. There are probably dozens of better boyfriends on the train right
this very moment. Hundreds!”
James stood up and backed away, afraid to say another word.
He found Ralph in the corridor before he found Millie’s
compartment.
“What are you up and about for?” the bigger boy asked, clearly
disgruntled.
James didn’t have it in him to be annoyed at Ralph’s tone. He
slumped and leaned against a window. “Looking for Millie. It’s over
between us. I just need to pound the final nail in the coffin.”
“Oh,” Ralph said, taken aback. “Well. Sorry, then. What
happened? Holiday a disaster?”
James shrugged. “I bodged it all up. It’s me, not her.”
“People always say that,” Ralph frowned. “But in your case, I think
you may be right.”
“Thanks, Ralph.”
Ralph shrugged his huge shoulders. “So, you wouldn’t mind if I
asked her out, maybe?”
James glanced at Ralph in surprise. “Seriously? You’re interested?”
“I dunno,” Ralph sighed, not meeting James’ eyes. “She’s pretty
enough. Rich, too, from what I hear.”
James blew out a breath, half-laughing. “Rich doesn’t begin to
cover it. They’re the most confusing people I’ve ever met. They’re like the

Progressive Element, but dipped in candy, and with all the nastiness sucked
out.”
“What do you mean?” Ralph seemed genuinely interested.
“Well, for starters, they’re proud of being anti-purebloods. And
they do all this stuff that seems all generous and forward thinking, like
hiring Muggle servants instead of using house elves…”
Ralph nodded consideringly.
“Your Aunt Hermione would
approve.”
“I guess she would,” James admitted, frowning. “But they don’t
seem to consider any of the consequences of their choices. The house elves
are all desperate for their work back. They don’t feel set free, they feel
abandoned and useless. And there’s something else. Millie’s family really
are nice, and they take great pains, most of them, not to judge anybody, no
matter who they are or what they do. But the moment their own daughter
wants to study something other than how to be a rich wizarding aristocrat,
they think it’s beneath her station and not good enough for her.”
Ralph looked mildly perplexed. “What sort of thing does Millie
want to study?”
James shook his head tiredly. “Architecture, of all things. Like, the
maths and designs of buildings and stuff. I don’t really understand it. But
her parents, they call that ‘Dwarf work’.”
“Well, it is, innit?”
“That doesn’t mean witches or wizards can’t do it, though.”
Ralph sighed briskly and nodded. He reached and clapped James on
the shoulder. “Well, good for you for calling an end to it when the time
came.”
“I don’t want to do it,” James bristled slightly. “I’d avoid the
bloody hell out of it if I could.”
“I’m sure everything will work itself out,” Ralph said, glancing
about the corridor. “I better get back to work, though. Being Head Boy is
harder than I ever expected. Somebody’s been setting off dungbombs but
nobody will tell me who’s responsible. I’ve gone up and down the train
twice now, trying to sniff them out.”
James nodded at his friend’s distracted earnestness. “Yeah, well,
happy hunting, Ralphinator.”
Ralph stood and squared his shoulders importantly. “Let me know
if you hear anything. Or, er, smell anything.”

With that, he stumped away, glancing into compartments as he went.
James watched him go, then, reluctantly, pushed away from the
wall, resuming his half-hearted search for Millie.
He passed the Cart Lady and bought a box of Pumpkin Pasties from
her, munching them as he went on. A little later, he saw his cousins Louis
and Dominique, and barely avoided getting pulled into an argument
between them over whose new Christmas socks were the best.
“I’d love to settle this for you,” he said soberly, backing away, “but
honestly, I’m afraid I couldn’t possibly bring myself to give a toss.”
He bumped into someone in the corridor and turned, relieved for the
interruption.
It was Millie.
“You could’ve had the decency to tell me yourself!” she seethed.
Her cheeks were livid pink with rage.
“What…?” James recoiled. “I don’t—”
“I had no idea what a little blab you were!” she shook her head
violently, her voice climbing to a shrill hiss. “So my family is a bunch of
pompous hypocrites who don’t think about the consequences of their
actions, eh?”
“What…?” James spluttered. “I mean… what? Who said…?”
“I got your message from Ralph Deedle,” Millie said, dropping her
voice again to a near whisper. “He told me you were ending it with me, and
then he said he thought it was really cool that I wanted to study
architecture. I cannot believe you told him that!” She raised her hand to
poke James in the chest, and then seemed to think better of it, as if she
couldn’t bring herself even to touch him. He saw, with real dismay, that she
was deeply and sincerely hurt. “I trusted you, James! I’m just… I don’t
even have the words…!”
James was shaking his head. “But I didn’t… I only said…” He
struggled to rally his thoughts in the face of her wounded rage. “I was
coming to tell you myself. I only just ran into Ralph and… and I told
him…”
“You told him everything,” she said resolutely. “And sent him to be
your errand boy. Well, all I can say, James, is that your message is
received.”
There were tears standing in her eyes now. Tears of hurt as well as
righteous anger. James was dumbfounded by them. “Millie, look. I

don’t… we don’t have to end it like this. Maybe…”
“Don’t say another word, James,” Millie said, shaking her head
again so that her blonde hair swung about her face. She swiped angrily at
her tears and refused to look at him again. Composing herself with an
effort of will, she added in an admirably even voice, “And to think, my
father really liked you, too. Even Grandmother Eunace. How disappointed
they’ll be.”
Leaving her words hanging unanswered in the air, she turned on her
heel and stalked away, holding her head up, settling back into the practiced
composure of her upbringing and heritage.
James opened his mouth to call after her, but realized he had no
other words to offer. It wasn’t that he had too little to say, but too much.
And she no longer wanted to hear it. Helplessly, he watched her march
away until she passed through the partition between carriages, slamming the
sliding door as she went.

15. THE ONE TO STAND FOR ALL
It was the middle of the first day back at Hogwarts before James
could confront Ralph about what he’d said to Millie. He caught up to the
bigger boy in the hall between classes, amidst the clamor of voices and the
frosty light of the high windows. Ralph seemed genuinely taken aback at
first, and then sullenly offended.
“I thought that’s what you wanted,” he said, hoisting his knapsack
and walking fast through the throng of younger years, parting them like a
barge through a flock of gulls. “You said telling her was the last thing you
wanted to do. Excuse me for trying to help.”
“That wasn’t helping! You told her I said her family were a bunch
of hypocrites! How could you think that was helping?”
“I didn’t say anything like that. I only told her it was cool that she
wanted to study architecture, and that it was a shame her family wouldn’t
support her.”
“But that was a secret!” James sputtered, exasperated. “I made that
pretty clear, didn’t I?”
“I don’t remember you saying it was a secret,” Ralph said, firming
his jaw and refusing to make eye contact. “But even if you did, it wasn’t a
secret from her, was it? And I’m not about to go blabbing to anyone else

about it.”
“Wait a minute,” James said, stopping in the corridor and narrowing
his eyes. “This is because you fancy her, isn’t it? You wanted to step on me
so you’d look better in her eyes. Is that it? Well, it didn’t work, did it? She
thinks you’re a right clod.”
Ralph stopped and half turned, glancing back over his shoulder.
“You don’t have any bloody clue what she thinks of me.” He glared at
James for a moment, and then deflated slightly. “Look, I’m sorry I said
anything to Millie. The point is, nobody has any clue what they think of
me. Not even me, most of the time. But I’ve been giving it some thought,
and it’s time I start acting on my own. Not just as the Slytherin pal of
James Potter, or the half-Muggle son of a squib. Me. So I’m trying to do
the sorts of things I never would have done before. One of them was
becoming Head Boy, and I think that’s turning out pretty all right. Another
one was telling Millie you wanted to break it off with her, and maybe that
wasn’t such a great idea. But it was my idea, and that’s pretty much the
point. I’m trying to figure out the best way to be Ralph. I’m sorry for some
things, but I’m not sorry for that.”
James opened his mouth to reply but was suddenly distracted by
Ralph’s knapsack. The name stitched across the top in green block letters
was different. James assumed that Ralph had mistakenly grabbed
somebody else’s pack, until he read the name that was printed there.
“Ralph,” he said, squinting distractedly, “why does your backpack
say ‘Dolohov’?”
Ralph jerked upright and took a step backward, turning fully to
James as if to hide the stitched name. His face reddened, but his
determination returned. “Well. It’s my name, innit?”
James studied his friend’s face in confusion. “But… but you’ve
always said you liked the Deedle better. I mean, I can sort of understand
wanting to make your own way and all, but you said Dolohov was the name
of killers and Muggle-haters.”
Ralph shrugged and looked away, toward the glaring white-frosted
windows that towered on the corridor’s north wall. “So maybe I changed
my mind. It just took me a few years to get used to it. There’s more to a
name than the worst people who had it.” He turned back to James again.
“Do you have a problem with it?” It was a challenge as much as a question.
James took a step back, dismayed at this sudden change of events.

“I don’t… I mean, it’s your choice, I guess. It’ll just… take some getting
used to. You know?”
Ralph nodded, his face stoic, the challenge still in his eyes. “Well,
you do that, then. Get used to it. Dolohov’s a good name. It has a great
history behind it, going back loads of generations. So there are a few bad
branches in the family tree. That doesn’t mean I have to be one. And it
doesn’t mean I should be ashamed of my heritage.”
James nodded, prickling a little at having the wind taken so
effectively out of his sails. “Sure, Ralph. That’s…”
But Ralph turned and continued on his way, stalking away from
James, leaving him in the hall as doors began to creak and slam all around,
announcing the start of classes. James realized that he still had his mouth
open. He closed it, stared in confused surprise at his departing friend, and
then remembered his own classes. With a start, he ran to catch up.
Defence Against the Dark Arts was just beginning as he slipped into
the doors, attempting to make himself as small as possible as he ducked
behind a knot of standing students. Graham smirked at him from over his
shoulder. Across the room, Millie stood with her Hufflepuff friends,
deliberately ignoring James’ late entry, or so he imagined. Perhaps she
simply hadn’t seen him, or truly didn’t care. He bristled uselessly at the
thought.
The floor of the classroom had been cleared of desks, making room
for a small dueling arena. Today was apparently going to be a practical
session, with students facing off against Professor Debellows or each other.
James dropped his knapsack against the wall and drew his wand. Dueling
was one of his favorite school activities, and he welcomed it most
especially on a day like today, with the thought Millie’s aloof disinterest
and Ralph’s disconcerting new name nagging at his attention. The big boy
himself stood with some fellow Slytherins on the other side of the door, his
face hard as he watched Professor Debellows.
“Today, students, you will not be dueling each other. I intend to
challenge you with a more demanding opponent. And no, this time that
doesn’t mean you will be dueling against me.”
A sigh and murmur of relief swept over the room. No one had ever
bested Professor Debellows in a duel, but many had limped away from such
confrontations nettled, embarrassed, and occasionally trailing colorful
smoke.

“No, today I wish to observe your technique closely as you do your
best to face a more advanced challenger. To that end, Professor Odin-Vann
has very graciously agreed to stand in as your opponent.”
James blinked and glanced around. Indeed, Professor Odin-Vann
stepped out onto the dueling floor, looking barely older than the seventh
years standing nearby. He wore a long black coat belted tightly around his
waist, giving his thin frame a sporty, eager look. James, knowing
something about the young professor’s spell-casting abilities, was
surprised. Dueling definitely did not seem to be the man’s strength. In fact,
from what James had seen, the professor seemed almost incapable of
casting spells under even the most mundane pressure. Had he agreed to
Debellows’ request simply because he hadn’t been quick enough to think of
a sufficient excuse? Was he about to be dreadfully embarrassed by this
demonstration of his stress-induced impotence?
If so, Odin-Vann was hiding his discomfiture very well. He turned
on his heel, spun his wand deftly in his fingers, and then bowed with a
rather strained smile, clicking his heels together.
“Mr. Warton,” Debellows called out, consulting a clipboard in his
huge, meaty hand. “You are up first. Please take position.”
Graham shrugged and sidled out onto the dueling floor, moving
opposite Odin-Vann. He bowed perfunctorily, and then lowered to an alert
half-crouch, raising his wand diagonally at eye-level, focusing past it to his
opponent, just as Debellows had taught them.
James glanced back toward Odin-Vann. The professor stood flatfooted, his wand at his side, his head tilted slightly, eyes narrowed. His
posture suggested that he was contemplating a piece of obscure artwork
rather than preparing to defend himself or launch an attack.
Debellows watched impassively, his brow furrowed, a quill raised in
one hand, held against the clipboard in the other. James knew that in
Debellows’ class there was no official commencement of a duel. It began
when the first opponent cast their attack.
Graham struck first, sidestepping and jabbing his wand forward.
“Confringo!” he barked, his voice echoing in the tight confines of the
classroom.
The blasting curse was one of Graham’s favorites, and he was
particularly good at it. The bolt of sherbet-purple light lanced across the
floor and struck Odin-Vann. The young professor stumbled backwards,

knocked off balance. James winced, embarrassed on the professor’s
behalf.
And yet Graham hadn’t scored the crippling strike that he had hoped
for. Somehow, James realized, Odin-Vann had cast a repulsion charm, too
late to deflect the blast completely, but just quick enough to avoid being
blown completely off his feet.
The gathered students muttered, half surprised that Graham had
gotten off such a strong, if predictable, opening shot, and half impressed
that Odin-Vann had managed his weak parry without so much as raising his
wand. It still hung at his side as he collected himself, resumed his position,
and then lifted his chin toward Graham, as if challenging him to try again.
Debellows watched with no expression whatsoever. Would he call it
off when it became apparent that Odin-Vann was no match for the
students? James hoped so. He watched helplessly, dreading the young
professor’s humiliation.
Graham bobbed on his toes and moved sideways. Always be a
moving target, James thought, reciting one of Debellows’ first rules in his
mind. Graham seemed to wait for Odin-Vann’s attack, watching for the
first tick of the professor’s wand, preparing to predict its intent. But the
professor made no move. Impatient, Graham sidestepped back the way he
had come and lunged forward again.
“Petrificus Totalis!” he cried, speaking quickly but clearly. It was a
bold move, and he got it off well. The spell shot across the room,
illuminating the faces of the watching students, and struck Odin-Vann with
a crack of magical impact.
James stiffened sympathetically, waiting to see Odin-Vann fall
backwards like a statue. Instead, the professor remained upright, his eyes
wide, his mouth pressed into a tight frown. His wand was raised in his hand
now, but at waist level. He had deflected Graham’s spell somehow, without
so much as a word.
The class muttered again, this time in hushed admiration. Nonverbal spells were impressive under any circumstance. Even Debellows
only used them sparingly in dueling sessions.
Graham tried again, this time dodging right. “Expeliarmus!”
This time, Odin-Vann blocked the spell before it was halfway across
the dueling floor. His defensive charm snuffed Graham’s attack with a
burst of golden light.

“Expeliarmus,” Odin-Vann said, almost conversationally, repeating
Graham’s own spell. Graham’s wand pinged from his still outstretched
hand and twirled behind him, clattering against the door. Graham gawped,
barely comprehending how quickly and easily Odin-Vann had beaten him.
James himself could barely believe what he had seen. Even OdinVann looked pleasantly surprised. He glanced down at his own wand and
smiled. Then, he raised it to his shoulder and bowed again to Graham.
Debellows marked on his clipboard and called, “Spirited, if
predictable, Mr. Warton. Ms. Doone. Please take position and let us see if
you fare any better.”
James watched as Ashley Doone faced off next against Odin-Vann.
This time, the young professor parried nearly instantly, flicking his wand up
even as the spells formed on Ashley’s lips, snuffing them before they
crossed the dueling floor. Ashley stepped back, dazzled by her obliterated
spells, and Odin-Vann edged forward to close the space.
“Ascendio,” Odin-Vann called, prodding his wand smartly toward
Ashley. She lofted three feet into the air, dropping her wand as she flailed,
pin-wheeling her arms.
“That will do, Ms. Doone,” Debellows announced in a monotone
voice, making more marks on his clipboard. “Ms. Fourcompass, you’re
next, if you please.”
Fiona Fourcompass moved reluctantly into position as Odin-Vann
lowered Ashley back to her feet, depositing her neatly alongside her
classmates. Frustrated, she raked her disheveled hair out of her face with
her fingers, her cheeks brick red.
As James watched, the same scenario was repeated over and over.
Student after student squared off against Odin-Vann, and he parried,
blocked, and extinguished their attacks so easily that he barely seemed to be
paying attention. Every time, Odin-Vann bested his opponent with a single,
different attack, each more creative and obscure than the last. Patrick
McCoy he overpowered with a tickle charm. Trenton Bloch, by turning his
hair into antlers. Fiera Hutchins was unfortunate enough to have her fingers
transfigured into jellyworts. And Hufflepuff George Muldoon was
subjected to a clown-wraith so terrifying that it left him huddled fetal at
Nolan Beetlebrick’s feet.
“It’s only a wraith,” Nolan said, nudging Muldoon hard with his
foot, rolling him over onto his back. “Just smoke and noise, you great

baby. It’s gone already.” Millie elbowed Beetlebrick aside with a withering
glance and reached to help Muldoon to his feet.
James’ own hair was still standing up at the memory of the horrible
clown monstrosity, wraith or not. He turned from Millie and Muldoon to
Odin-Vann, who was holding his wand thoughtfully to his chest, buffing it
against his lapel.
“And with that,” Debellows announced dispiritedly, “I’m afraid we
are very nearly out of time. I see we have very much to work to do,
students. Very much work indeed.”
James blew out a pent-up breath, not even realizing that he’d been
holding it. He had begun to dread the thought of facing off against the
suddenly unbeatable Odin-Vann, but now, fortunately, it seemed that he and
a remaining untouched few had been granted a reprieve.
“In fact,” Debellows called over the sudden shuffle of feet and
murmuring voices, “Before we bid our thanks to Professor Odin-Vann, I’m
afraid we have time for only one more duel.”
A sinking sensation came over James. Instinctively, he tried to hide
behind Graham and Deirdre Finnegan.
“No good,” Graham growled, shoving James hard with his elbow.
“If I have to do it, you do, too.”
Debellows swept his gaze over the class, squinting over his reading
spectacles.
“You,” he called, nodding decisively. “Mr. Deedle. If you would
favor us with your best game.”
James sagged in relief, exhaling another audible sigh. Across from
him, Ralph was looking at Odin-Vann, hard-faced, as he said, “I’m Dolohov
now, sir. I’ve decided to take my birth name.”
“Ah,” Debellows said stiffly, consulting his clipboard again with the
air of a man who had difficulty remembering his students’ names under
normal conditions, much less when they changed them all willy-nilly. “I
shall, er, make a note of it, then. Ahem. But please, Mr. Erm. If you would
quickly take position.”
Ralph moved readily out onto the open floor, his eyes still locked on
Odin-Vann, his wand held out at waist level. As always, Ralph’s wand
looked fairly ridiculous. Thick as a broom handle, its sharpened tip still
bearing traces of lime green paint, the instrument would be laughable to
those who didn’t know that it was, in reality, a broken-off segment of

Headmaster Merlin’s legendary staff, gifted to Ralph after he had mastered
it back during his first year.
Odin-Vann stepped forward to bow stiffly, a polite smile on his
face. Ralph did not bow in return. Instead, he struck, suddenly and
powerfully, before the professor had even straightened upright.
The bolt of red spat from the enormous wand in Ralph’s
outstretched fist. In response, Odin-Vann’s wand jerked upright and slashed
across the red spell, blunting but not quite deflecting it. The dulled bolt
caught him in the shoulder and spun him around, stumbling and flailing, his
coattails flying like bat wings.
Ralph stepped forward, sighting down the length of his arm. He
fired again, an orange spell this time. The blinding streak caught OdinVann in the back of the knee and he buckled, his leg momentarily useless.
His wand jerked upright again and he spun around on his good leg,
following its movement, an uncertain gleam in his eye. He was surprised
by Ralph’s attack. James could see that. But he was also angered by it.
“He’s using non-verbals!” Deirdre hissed aside, not taking her eyes
from Ralph. “Since when does Deedle know non-verbals?”
“That’s not Deedle, don’t you know,” Graham answered in a low
voice. “That’s Dolohov!”
Ralph fired again, still stepping forward, closing the gap. This time
Odin-Vann managed to block it, but the sheer force of the blow pushed him
backwards several feet, scraping his boots on the stone floor as he leaned
into the force.
“Deedle,” Debellows called out, but his voice was drowned by
another crack from Ralph’s wand. An arc of pale green lightning writhed
toward Odin-Vann, striking his chest even as his wand fired the counter-jinx
uselessly into the air. The professor blasted backward and struck a
bookshelf, which vomited its freight of books, peppering the professor and
the shocked students nearby.
“That’s quite sufficient,” Debellows announced, raising his voice to
a formidable boom. “Mr. Deedle, or whatever you prefer to call yourself
—”
A blast of yellow sparks shot across the room, this time from OdinVann’s direction. The spell ricocheted off the ceiling and floor, spraying its
force uselessly, but distracting Ralph briefly. The professor flung himself
upright from the tottering bookshelf, kicked a scatter of fat textbooks aside,

and raised his wand again.
Ralph saw and fired another of the pale green lightning bolts. James
assumed that it was a repulsion hex, although it was impossible to tell, since
Ralph continued to fire without speaking any incantations.
Non-verbal spells, James thought, his eyes widening. Odin-Vann
has no idea what to protect himself against.
And yet, this time Odin-Vann did protect himself, if only because
Ralph cast the same spell twice. The professor’s wand swept up, producing
a shimmering shield at the very instant that the green bolt lanced across the
room. Ralph’s spell struck it and rebounded back toward him. The big boy
strafed sideways, turning as he did, so that the bolt arced past and struck the
door, leaving a blackened starburst on the ancient wood.
Ralph spun back toward his opponent and thrust out his wand once
more.
“Sectumsempra!” he shouted, firing a blast of livid blue.
James’ blood went cold. Sectumsempra was a vicious attack, barely
known and never used in dueling practices. Also, it was Ralph’s first
spoken hex. He seemed to have run out of non-verbals to attempt.
Odin-Vann slashed at the blue bolt, his wand-hand moving jerkily,
as if it was spring-loaded. Ralph’s spell obliterated in mid-air.
Ralph tried again, lunging aside as Odin-Vann trained his wand on
him.
“Incarcerous!”
His voice was hoarse, strained with both
concentration and inexplicable vehemence.
A spray of ropes snaked toward Odin-Vann, writhing to incapacitate
him, but the professor had found his footing now and was striding forward
himself, meeting Ralph’s attacks head-on. His wand lanced upright,
drawing a streak of flaming red in the air, and the ropes pattered to the floor
as worms of ash.
Ralph struck again, and again, but Odin-Vann barely blinked now.
He stepped forward with each deflection, closing the distance between
them, forcing Ralph backwards toward the door. The professor was smiling
now, or at least showing his teeth in a sort of mirthless rictus, his wand hand
moving as if of its own accord, slashing and thrusting, jerking in his fist like
a living thing. Ralph was breathless, calling every spell he could think of,
faster and faster, but to no avail. Odin-Vann’s wand met each one with its
counter-jinx, so quickly that James could barely keep track. The crackle of
spent magic, acrid and electric, filled the room and made James’ hair

prickle. The flashbulb pop and sizzle of the duel was almost too blinding to
watch. By comparison, the rest of the room was a gloom of astonished,
staring faces.
Finally, as the confrontation reached its breathless, explosive zenith,
Ralph’s back thumped against the classroom door. His elbow struck the
wood and the wand fumbled from his hand, trailing sparks and steaming
like a log in a fire. Odin-Vann swept his arm forward in a blur, stopping
just short of Ralph’s upraised chin, touching the tip of his own smoking
wand to the boy’s throat, and freezing there.
The room was suddenly thick with stunned silence. James blinked
against green after-images of the duel, each spell momentarily burned onto
his retinas. The only sound now was the huff of Ralph’s hard breath as he
stood against the door, pushed up onto his toes, his head tilted back from
Odin-Vann’s pointing wand.
“I daresay, to the both of you,” Debellows exhaled, shaking his head
slowly, “you might do well to learn less spell-work… and more when to
quit.”

James felt very alone that night at dinner. He sat across from Rose
but didn’t say much. She didn’t need him to. Having made up with
Scorpius again, she was in much better spirits and talked to the blonde boy
incessantly about her classes, the upcoming Hogsmeade weekend, the many
books that she was reading, and general school gossip (including, of course,
Albus’ ongoing relationship with Chance Jackson, which had not been
remotely diminished by the intervening holidays). For his own part,
Scorpius merely ate and nodded in a bored manner, letting Rose’s words
wash over him like waves on a beach. The sight of it made James angry,
fueling his already sour mood. He was embarrassed for his cousin, since
anyone could see that Scorpius was just a manipulative little berk toying
with her emotions like a kneazle with a mouse. She knew better to put up

with him, and yet somehow continued to put up with him anyway. He
opened his mouth to say something, and then thought better of it, knowing
it was no use.
“Something stuck in your craw, Potter?” Scorpius interrupted Rose’s
monologue, raising a sly eyebrow.
James shook his head. “Have another roll,” he said, throwing the
one on his own plate at Scorpius’ chest. The blond boy caught it, not taking
his eyes from James.
Standing and grabbing his knapsack, James escaped before Scorpius
could offer another word. If he didn’t get away, James would likely be
drawn into a row. About what, he didn’t even know. He was simply in that
sort of mood. And Scorpius was just the sort of person to sense a person’s
short fuse, and deliberately light it.
He went up to the common room, avoiding eye contact with
everyone along the way. This tactic failed him as he entered the portrait
hole and encountered Cameron Creevey in the common room.
“Hey James,” the boy called, hopping up from a table near the
window. “My mates and I have to write essays about a famous wizard for
Wizlit and I was hoping to do mine on your dad! Can I interview you for
it?”
James was shaking his head even before Cameron finished
speaking. “Sorry, Cam. I’ve got too much homework myself. I’m just
going to camp out in the corner and bury myself in it.” He unslung his
knapsack and gestured with it toward an empty table across the room.
“Oh,” Cameron deflated, and then perked up again. “I can come sit
with you! I won’t interview you or anything. I’ll just ask you questions as
they come up. You’ll hardly know I’m there!”
“Cam, honestly,” James sighed, letting his knapsack dangle against
his leg. “You already know more about my dad than I ever will.”
“Nah,” Cameron grinned and blushed crimson, as if he’d been given
the highest compliment imaginable. “Let me just grab my things! I’ll come
and join you right now.”
James closed his eyes helplessly and reached to rub them with his
free hand. Cameron dashed away. Papers rattled and books slammed shut
as he hastily gathered his things.
“You know what, Cam?” James said, dropping his hand from his
eyes. “I just remembered. I need… my…” He gestured weakly toward the

boys’ dormitory stairs. “Things. From my trunk, upstairs. I’ll just…” He
was too annoyed and tired to attempt a more imaginative excuse.
Cameron frowned at him from the nearby table, his things halfstuffed into his bag. “Oh. Well, why don’t I go set up over at our table, and
I’ll just wait for you. Sound good?”
James nodded dismally. Turning on his heel, he stumped to the
dormitory door and climbed up the spiral stairs into darkness.
A box was under his bed, just visible behind his trunk. With a start,
he remembered: it was his Christmas gift from home, delivered by Kreacher
before the holidays. James had never opened it.
Eager for a happy distraction, he heaved out the colourfully wrapped
box, stripped away the ribbons and paper, and tugged off the lid, flinging it
aside.
A note sat atop a mass of neatly folded black cloth. James picked it
up and read his mother’s neat handwriting:
Happy Christmas, James!
I’m certain these new dress robes will come in handy
over your holiday with the Vandergriffs. Those old ones are
too horrid even to serve as hand-me-downs for Albus. Do us
all a favour and donate them to Mr. Filch to use as rags.
Much love!
Mum
Bleakly amused, he read the note again, and then allowed it to fall
from his fingers to the floor. Without looking at the new dress robes, he
pushed the box aside and flopped onto his bed, unsure if he felt more like
laughing or crying.
Some small part of his mind (probably the part that belonged to his
mother) scolded him for blowing off Cameron, whose only crime was
thinking much too highly of James than he surely deserved. Another part of
his mind (this one likely belonging to his father) halfheartedly reminded
him that he did indeed have a stack of homework to do. And yet he
couldn’t bring himself to address either voice. Instead, he thought only of
Ralph battling Professor Odin-Vann, and the increasing flash and sizzle of

their furious duel. Ralph truly disliked the young professor. But why? Was
there something more to it than distrust?
Further, what could explain Odin-Vann’s suddenly expert dueling
abilities? Surely James hadn’t imagined the professor’s earlier impotence.
He recalled very well their first Charms class, when Odin-Vann had seemed
unable to so much as magic his own chalkboard clean while everyone was
staring at him.
Dolohov, he thought to himself, lying crooked on his bed, one leg
kicked off and sprawled to the floor. Ralph Dolohov. Get used to it…
He didn’t know when he fell asleep. It fell over him like a black
cloak, dropping him into dreamless oblivion with no transition whatsoever.
He didn’t dream.
He traveled.
“James,” a young woman said, her voice bemused and surprised in
equal measure, though muted with solemnity.
James opened his eyes. He stood in a small space that was
simultaneously enclosed yet open to the outdoors. Breeze lifted his hair and
tugged at his untucked shirt. His feet stood on old wooden planks, rough
with peeling white paint. From all around came the unmistakable shush and
gurgle of waves. James had been here before, in another dream.
Only this wasn’t a dream, anymore than it had been the last time he
had visited this place. It was the gazebo on Petra’s grandparents’ farm,
overlooking the secluded woodland lake in which Izzy Morganstern, Petra’s
stepsister, had almost drowned at Petra’s own hand.
Izzy was there now. She lay sleeping on one of the two benches
built into the gazebo’s hexagonal railing. Across from her, pale in the last
shreds of sunset, sat Petra. A heavy book was open on her lap, but she was
looking up at him, a weary, affectionate smile on her face.
“Is this really you?” James asked, his voice unconsciously hushed
beneath the gentle lap of the waves.
Petra shrugged. “As real as I get these days.”
“So I’m not dreaming,” he confirmed, looking around at the ruddy
shimmering water, the distant wood filled with purple dusk and chirring
crickets. “But I am, er…” he glanced back at Petra again, frowning,
“asleep?”
Petra shrugged again. “Actually, I don’t think so.” She patted the
bench next to her, inviting him to join her, and then moved an object that

was sitting there in her shadow, covering it with her hand. “I think you
come to me sometimes when you sleep, but for real. This is no vision, not
for either of us. I think that somewhere in Gryffindor tower there’s an
empty bed with your name on it.”
James moved to Petra and settled down next to her, but slowly,
uncertain that any sudden movement might not break the moment like a
soap bubble.
“Actually,” he admitted, settling his hip and shoulder next to hers,
feeling her warmth, “my bed still says ‘whiny Potter git’ on the headboard.
A gift from Scorpius his first year.”
Petra nodded and smiled. He turned aside to her. She looked out
over the waves. The burnished gloaming reflected in her eyes, making
them look as deep and vivid as the lake itself. Quietly, he asked her, “Is this
place really here? Or are you making it?”
Petra considered the question. “I think it’s real. But it’s not in the
world that we know, or at least not in the time that we know. I think this is
a memory made real again. This is my grandfather’s farm back before
grandma died. Before I was a little girl here. Back before the gazebo had
broken away from the dock and sunk to the bottom of the lake for all those
years.” Her eyes unfocussed as she went deeper into the thought. “This is
the gazebo back before your grandparents died at the hand of Voldemort.
Before any of the ugliness happened. Back when the world was simple,
with beauty still to be found in it. When there was still the possibility of
love and light and hope. I come here with Izzy every night. But I don’t
make it happen. I just know where to find it again, to reach it back in those
long-forgotten days of the past. Maybe it’s because of those secret hours I
spent asleep in the World Between the Worlds, where there’s no such thing
as time. Maybe it happens just because I want it so much.”
James listened to her words, but barely heard them. Part of this was
because what she said sounded so bereft, so prosaically hopeless. Another
part was because his mind was still reeling with the suddenness of his
appearance in her presence, unprepared and inexplicable. But mostly he
barely heard her because all of his attention was focused only on looking at
her, soaking up the warmth and solidity of her presence, memorizing the
smoothness of her cheek, the solemn vibrance of her eyes, the lustre of her
dark hair as the wind teased it, trailing silky brown ribbons over her
shoulders.

He wanted to put his arm around her but didn’t dare. He wanted to
breath deeply the simple intoxication of her scent—floral soap and sunwarmed skin—but knew he could never get enough. So he simply stared at
her instead, musing pointlessly on a fate that would bring them together like
this, if only one more time, only for them to be taken apart again forever.
“I’ve been studying,” Petra said, glancing down at the book on her
lap. James followed her gaze. The book was huge and old, with pages as
heavy as lambskin, covered in dense penmanship, most of which seemed to
crawl and writhe before his eyes. Somehow, James knew what it was, even
though he’d never seen such a thing before.
“It’s one of the Volumes of the Unknowable Enigmas,” he said, as if
the information was coming into his mind from Petra herself, through the
invisible ribbon that connected them. “The one you collected when you
broke into the Armory of Forbidden Books and Artifacts.”
Petra nodded. “But it’s of little use. I took it mostly to learn about
Horcruxes, but I also thought I could use it to learn how to break through to
alternate dimensions without having to go through the Vault of Destinies
and the Loom.” She shook her head and closed the book on her lap with a
thump. “But it’s no use. There are theories, but none of them have ever
been tried or proven. They’re just ideas, and not very practical ones, at
that. No one can break through. Not without the Loom. Not without the
right key to the right dimension.”
James sighed, deep and hard. This was the last thing he wanted to
talk about with Petra. But he knew there was nothing else to talk about.
This was all that was left.
“When will it happen?”
Petra shook her head blandly. “It’s not up to me. And I’m glad it’s
not. I want it to be over as soon as possible. But I’m also afraid to go. I’m
afraid to lose Izzy. Afraid to become another version of myself that I barely
know. Morgan was broken by her choices. She didn’t have any hope left.
She had nothing to lose, but nothing to live for. I don’t want to become her
in the world that she came from. But I don’t have any choice.”
James shook his head as he listened. “But why, Petra? You don’t
have to do it. What do you gain by it?”
Petra turned to him finally and looked into his eyes, as if reading
what she saw there. “I don’t gain anything by it. But everyone else does.
I’m not going to that dimension to become Morgan. I already am her. You

know that. When Morgan died in this world, she became a part of it. She
stopped being the Crimson Thread. Now, she’s Petra, and I’m Morgan, the
Thread plucked from another dimension. It’s how the balance of destinies
works: corpses don’t count. This is no longer my world. It rejects my
being here. Its destiny breaks down more and more the longer I stay. I
can’t let myself be responsible for that. I have to go to the world that knows
me, no matter how much I may hate it. It’s the only way to save this world,
and the people that I love in it.”
“Like Izzy,” James nodded sadly, looking across at the sleeping girl.
Petra sighed and said quietly, “Not just Izzy.”
James turned back to her, unwilling to accept her version of the
truth. “But, what if you’re wrong?”
Petra’s eyes hardened slightly. “I’m not wrong. I feel it. I know it.
I’m certain.”
And yet, suddenly, James wondered: was she really certain? There
was a stubbornness in her words that hinted that she was trying to convince
herself as much as she was him.
“There must be another way,” James insisted, slumping next to her,
turning his own gaze away, letting it rest again on Izzy’s sleeping form.
Her breathing was slow and deep, her back turned to James, her blond hair
bronzed with the dying sun.
“There’s no other way,” Petra said flatly. “I can’t stay here. I can’t
be imprisoned here. And most of all, I can’t die here. That would be the
worst thing of all. If that happened…” She shook her head, her eyes going
glassy. She cradled the object that had been sitting on the bench next to her,
placed it on the book on her lap and covered it with both hands.
“You mean,” James said, hating the thought, “that if both versions of
you died in this world… there would be no hope of ever setting it right?”
Petra nodded. And then shook her head. “It would be disastrous.
Not just for our world, which would have two Petras in it, but the other,
which would have none. How can we know what that would cause?
Maybe a chain-reaction of collapsing destinies across the whole universe of
realities?” Her face hardened at the thought. “That’s why I can’t allow
anyone to stop me. No matter what. I can’t be imprisoned here. I can’t die
here.”
“That’s why you made the Horcrux,” James said, swallowing hard
and looking down at the object under Petra’s hands.

She looked down as well, and then uncovered it. The dagger glinted
darkly. Its jeweled handle was possibly the ugliest and most garish thing
James had ever seen. Petra was ashamed of the Horcrux dagger, and yet
she did not flinch from it. James saw that, to her, it was a necessary tool,
guarantee that her mission would succeed, no matter what it cost her.
“I’m Morgan now,” she said, speaking as if to the dagger itself.
“I’ve nothing to lose. And nothing to live for.”
James couldn’t approach that thought. His heart, even more than his
brain, rejected it. He shook his head curtly, exasperated and heartsick.
“Maybe Odin-Vann will fail. Maybe he won’t be able to prepare the
Loom in the Vault of Destinies. Maybe he won’t even be able to get in. Or
maybe the magic just won’t work. What then?”
“It won’t fail, James,” Petra said, a note of pity in her voice as she
looked at him again. “And I’ve got more than Don helping me.”
This surprised James. He snapped his gaze back to her. “What do
you mean? Who’s helping you besides Odin-Vann?” He realized, with a
note of stupid frustration, that he was jealous.
“It doesn’t matter,” Petra said, not meeting his eyes.
“It matters to me, it does,” James pressed. “I think I should at least
be allowed to know who’s helping rid the world of the girl that I—”
He stopped himself, just barely, from saying the last word—the girl
that I love. Petra stood up, however, and turned her back on him, the fat
book in her left hand, the dagger Horcrux in her right.
Quietly, she said, “I need somebody, James, and as much as you’d
want it to be you, it can’t be. For reasons that I can’t tell you, it just can’t
be. And to be perfectly blunt, I don’t think I owe you any reasons.” She
looked back at him over her shoulder, half challenging him, half begging
him to leave it be.
He stood as well. “Who is it?”
She returned her gaze to the lake, not answering. The sun was still
hovering just beneath the fringe of the trees, and James understood: it’s
wasn’t a sun setting, it was a sun forever frozen. This was an orphan hour,
replaying itself endlessly, fossilized in time except for the lap of the waves
and the hush of the breeze.
“Who is it?” he asked again, daring to raise his voice.
“It’s Albus,” Petra answered, turning her head but not looking at
him. “All right?”

“Albus?” James exclaimed, certain that he couldn’t have heard her
properly. Petra didn’t move, merely waited. He had heard her correctly
after all. A flash of memories swept into his thoughts: Albus on first night,
sitting in the Room of Requirement, strangely quiet on the topic of Petra
until someone questioned whether it really had been her that had broken
into the Armory of Forbidden Books and Artifacts. It was her, he had said
with strange confidence. He had known. Had Petra met with him even
back then? Had she brought Albus into her confidence months before she
had even informed James himself?
Worse, would she ever have told James her plan if he hadn’t been
able to visit her via the ribbon they shared, just as he was now?
“You can’t be serious? Albus?” he exclaimed again. Next to him,
Izzy stirred and murmured in her sleep.
“It’s not all that shocking, if you think about it,” Petra stated, raising
her chin, still not turning back to him. “Albus and I became friends during
the summer that Izzy and I stayed with your family. We’re much more
alike than you know.”
James nodded derisively. “Albus says that, too. I just had no idea
you agreed with him. Well, this is just fine then, isn’t it? My own brother
is working with you to send you off to some other cursed dimension.”
“Not just him,” Petra said quietly, as if committed now to telling
James the whole truth.
“Oh, that’s right,” James agreed sourly, throwing out his arms.
“There’s your old pal Don, who’s been your bestie since way back before I
was ever in the picture.”
“Not just Don, either,” Petra countered, dropping her voice even
lower, shame and defiance mingling in her tone.
“Who then?” James demanded, taking a step closer to her.
She raised her chin and turned to him fully now, her lips pressed
into a tight line, meeting his gaze firmly. She didn’t answer, but allowed
him to look into her face, to read the truth revealed there.
And another memory came, unbidden, into James’ mind. It was not
his own memory, but Petra’s, deliberately broadcast to him on the frequency
of their secret connection. In it, a wheedling voice, high and insistent
droned viciously, speaking only to Petra herself: GIVE IN! All that matters
is power… Embrace your destiny or die fighting it. You are not good. There
is no… such… THING!

James’ shoulders wracked with a hard shiver. He had heard that
loathsome, hateful voice once before, and recognized it immediately. Back
then it had come from a maimed painting, hissing with venom. Now, it was
the voice from the back room of Petra’s mind. It was the cursed voice of
the Bloodline: the last, fractured shred of Lord Voldemort himself, long
dead, but captured, like a spark of poison flame, in the lantern of Petra’s
mind and heart.
And for the first time, James understood the fatal connection
between Petra’s twin identities. She was the Bloodline. And she was the
Crimson Thread. Beneath the titles, they were both exactly the same thing:
a scarlet vector pointing to one terrible, inescapable destiny.
“You’ve been,” James said, his voice hushed now to a whisper,
“you’ve been… listening to that?”
“I don’t listen to it,” she answered, still facing him with stubborn
defiance. “But I tap into it. There is power there. And something else…
something I desperately need right now.”
James wasn’t joking when he suggested: “Evil?”
Petra shook her head in negation, but took her eyes from him again,
turning away. “Conviction. I’m divided, James, don’t you see? I’m torn
between what I know I have to do, and what my heart most desperately
wants. I need the conviction that that part of me offers. It’s like a dark
magnetism. It helps me stay on the path I need to go down.”
James simply stared at Petra, unable to formulate any response to
her words. They were wrong on so many levels that he couldn’t simply
choose one. He flailed desperately in his thoughts, found nothing to cling
to, and then simply said the first thing that came to his mind.
“But that voice is hate, Petra. Hate is never right. There has to be
another voice. A voice that’s truly yours.”
Petra didn’t move. She stood silhouetted against the petrified
bronze sunset, the forbidden book under one arm, the dagger Horcrux
dangling in her other hand. After a long moment, she shrugged slowly and
shook her head, as if reaching a hopeless conclusion that she had reached a
thousand times before.
“There is no other voice, James,” she said with horrible banality.
“That voice died with the other Petra.”
James reached for her arm, took the heavy book from beneath it, and
dropped it to the empty bench without looking. He turned her toward him,

but she didn’t raise her eyes to him, didn’t look at him at all. She held the
dagger Horcrux behind her back, as if she thought he might try to take that
from her as well. Or as if she meant to stab him with it.
“I don’t believe that,” James said, taking Petra by the shoulders,
looking down at her. “You’re good. Good isn’t a myth, as long as you
believe in it.”
Petra leaned toward James, pressed her forehead weakly to his
throat, allowed him to collect her into his arms. She did not hug him back,
but absorbed his embrace deeply, unwilling to ask for it, but desperate for it
nonetheless. They stood like that for some time, warming in the eternal
sunset glow, listening to the lap of the waves beneath the gazebo, and the
softer, slower tide of Izzy’s breathing behind them. It might have been a
minute, or an hour. James had no way of knowing, and was content to
stand there holding Petra forever, until she stirred against him. She twined
her arms around his waist slowly, keeping him close, and then pushed
herself up onto her toes before him. He dipped his head as she opened her
mouth to whisper to him.
Instead, she kissed him.
Her lips were shocking in their normalcy, their perfect warmth, and
softness, and subtle expressiveness. There was no fantastic exchange of
power between them, no spark of blinding enchantment.
And yet…
And yet it was the most purely, pristinely magical moment that
James had ever experienced. He forgot who he was. His heart expanded
and took up his whole body, crowding out every rational, waking thought.
And then, only a second and a lifetime later, Petra withdrew,
keeping her face near his, looking up gravely into his eyes.
“We just had our first and last lover’s quarrel, James,” she said
somberly. “Did you know that?”
James stared down at her, speechless, wanting nothing more than to
kiss her again, or for the world to end at that exact moment so that her kiss
would be his final memory. “No,” he answered. “Was that… us making
up?”
She smiled secretively and then shook her head. “No. That was
because you were jealous of Don. He’s just a friend. That’s all he ever
was, and all he ever could be. He’s not like you. But your jealousy… it’s
sweet. And adorable.”

James felt his face flush. He knew that she could see it, but he
wasn’t ashamed.
“Don’t go, Petra,” he said. The words came out before he could
stop them. There was nothing more to say. That’s all he wanted in the
whole world. No matter the cost. No matter the consequence.
She closed her eyes. There was pain on her face, as if she was
experiencing a brief but titanic inner struggle. And then she went rigid in
his arms. When she opened her eyes again, they were different.
James shivered violently and recoiled, but Petra was still holding
onto him. She stared up at him still, only now her eyes glowed with a
ruddy inner light. Her pupils were thin, black snake-slits.
“I don’t want to go, James,” she said with low emphasis. Her voice
was a cold furnace of conviction. “But don’t make this harder than it is.
I’ve warned you before. Don’t try to stop me. No one can be allowed to
stop me.”
“Petra,” James rasped, but his own voice was barely audible.
Horror and dismay constricted his throat. And still she held onto him.
James couldn’t tell if she was embracing him or strangling him.
“I love you, James,” she said. Her breath was an arctic breeze on
his face, and yet it was the hopelessness in her tone that chilled him worst
of all. These weren’t the words of young love.
This was an epitaph, a final inscription—a single kiss, first and
final, the one to stand for all.
Darkness swept across the sky. It blotted the lake, snuffed the sun,
and threw he and Petra into seamless black. He felt her holding onto him
even as he fell away, dropped into the abyss of dreamless sleep, hearing her
last words clang over and over in a senseless echo, like the tolling of a bell,
as dead and cold as a January frost.

16. HAGRID MAKES A PLAN
“It was a dream, James. Had to be.” Rose was distracted and
agitated as they walked along the snow-mushy path to the greenhouses.
Cold water squelched into their shoes as they hurried, blinking against the
stunning winter sunlight. The snow was a damp blanket over the grounds,
pitted and heavy, as if exhausted after the long winter, ready to melt away at
the first breath of spring.
“It wasn’t a dream,” James insisted, keeping his voice hushed
despite the constant pummel of the wind. “You know I can travel to Petra
in my sleep. I’ve told you the whole thing, about how, on the night I saved
Petra on the back of the Gwyndemere, a connection happened between us,
and it’s been there ever since. You’ve seen it with your own eyes! I tell
you, I visited with Petra last night. She was just as real as you and me right
now. I could smell her. I could… um, touch her.”
“Just because you can travel to her in your sleep sometimes doesn’t
mean you do it every time. You said yourself that you visited her in her
grandparents’ gazebo. Harriers and Aurors have been staked out all around
that farm ever since the Night of the Unveiling, guarding it and watching
for her. She can’t put her big toe anywhere near there without being
instantly surrounded.”
“And I told you,” James said, exasperated, “That it wasn’t the

gazebo and the lake as it is now. It was caught in a loop of time from
decades ago, before any of us were even born.”
“Right,” Rose nodded. “Definitely not something that would
happen in a dream.”
“Rose, she’s been in contact with Al! And she’s tapping into the
power of the Bloodline for strength and support! Whatever is left of
Voldemort, she’s talking to it. She’s listening to it. And she’s using its
power.”
“Look, James,” Rose said curtly, tromping into the shadow of the
greenhouse. Sunlight shot blinding arrows from the glass walls. “It’s
marvelous that you and Petra have this cosmic connection. Really, it is.
And I’m just honest enough to admit that, quite frankly, I’m dead jealous of
the both of you. It’s all so bloody, tragically romantic that I can barely
stand it. Worse, the fact that it’s wasted on an emotionally constipated,
immature clod like you—”
“Rose,” James interrupted, “I kissed her.”
Rose stopped in her tracks, sliding a little in the slush. She turned
around, eyes wide. In a tight whisper, she said, “You didn’t!”
“Well, actually no. I didn’t. She kissed me.” He blew out a hard
sigh and squinted in the reflected afternoon sunlight. “It was the last thing I
expected. It was…” He shook his head, speechless at the memory.
“But you kissed her back,” Rose confirmed, her eyes still wide.
“Of course. And then, I just held her for awhile. Or… that might
have come first. To be honest, the whole thing is almost too big to
remember. It takes up too much space in my memory.” He glanced quickly
up at her again. “But that doesn’t mean it was only a dream.”
“No,” Rose breathed wistfully, an almost pitying look melting her
features, “that’s the first thing you’ve said that convinces me it was actually
real.”
Slowly, they continued on, rounding the greenhouse toward the
entry. Mollified but suspicious, James said, “And why is that?”
“It’s simple,” Rose said, her tone wistful but condescending.
“You’ve been completely besotted with Petra for years now. Have you ever
dreamed of kissing her before?”
James shook his head firmly. “Never.”
“Of course not,” Rose said, dropping her voice as they pushed into
the relative warmth of the greenhouse and the chatter of gathering students.

“Dreams may toy with granting our wishes sometimes, but they don’t tease
us with the things we want most of all. If they did, we’d be too heartbroken
by reality to ever wake up.”
James nodded a little uncertainly. They made their way to a
collection of wooden folding chairs arranged before the potting table.
Behind this, Hagrid was bustling and humming to himself loudly.
“But it does leave a lot of unanswered questions,” Rose whispered
as they settled into the front row. “Like, what will happen to Izzy when
Petra leaves this dimension forever? And why would the last shred of
Voldemort in her blood want her to go at all? And maybe most importantly,
what does Judith have to do with any of it?”
“I… “ James began, then paused and mentally kicked himself. “I
didn’t even ask her about Judith.”
Rose did a subtle but pointed double-take at him. She rasped, “You
didn’t tell her that Judith cornered you on the lake outside Millie’s home
and warned you to stay away from her?” James had told Rose about the
encounter, if no one else, since Rose most seemed to understand the mad
power and ongoing threat of the Lady of the Lake. Most others, if they
knew of her at all, assumed that Judith had been destroyed during the
debacle of the Morrigan Web, over two years earlier.
“I was a little distracted,” James whispered defensively, “being
zapped away to the gazebo in the first place, and learning that Petra’s been
in contact with Al for months. And then there was the kiss…”
“James,” Rose sagged helplessly, “Zane Walker is right. You really
are as dull as dishwater. You had a chance to ask the most important
question of all, and you completely flubbed it!”
James blinked and frowned again. “Zane said I was dull as
dishwater?”
“Not in so many words, but come on. He was whatever passed for
the brains of you three before I came along. Now think: the only reason
Judith warned you away from Petra is because she knows you don’t want
her to carry out her plan. That means Judith does want her to. And
apparently so does the ghost of Voldemort’s soul that lives in Petra’s blood,
otherwise she wouldn’t be tapping into it for guidance and strength. So, the
big question is obvious, isn’t it? Why would the two most evil entities in
the whole wide world want Petra to go through with her mission?”
James shook his head and slumped back in his wooden chair. “It

can’t be that. Petra says that assuming the role of the Crimson Thread in
that other version of reality is the only way to fix everything here in this
one. There must be some other reason why Judith wants me to stay out of
it.”
“And another reason why the demented shred of Voldemort in
Petra’s head wants her to go through with it?” Rose shook her head firmly.
“You’re making the same mistake you always do, James.”
He glared back at her, suddenly perturbed. “And what’s that, you’re
so smart?”
Rose hissed, “Trusting people who don’t always deserve to be
trusted!”
“Like Petra,” James nodded, as if confirming a suspicion. “Look,
you don’t know her like I do. Nobody does.”
“Petra isn’t a bad person,” Rose acknowledged, the spark in her eyes
unwavering. “But that doesn’t mean that she’s always right, James. She
can be wrong, just like you and me. Worse, she can be lied to.”
James had no response to that. Not because Rose’s suggestion made
him angry, but because he had honestly never even considered it.
Hagrid’s voice boomed through the greenhouse, interrupting their
hushed conversation, “Settle down, yeh lot, and find a seat. We’ve got
loads t’ cover today, so be ready with yer quills and parchments.”
A ripple of surprise swept over the students, and then came the
shuffle of knapsacks and bags as parchments, books, and quills were
produced, balanced precariously on knees in the absence of desks.
“Professor Hagrid,” Trenton Bloch said, raising a peremptory hand.
“We don’t usually take notes in this class. Does this mean today’s subject
will be on a test later?”
“Wouldn’t yeh like to know,” Hagrid answered cagily, his beetleblack eyes narrowing. Then, with a start, he straightened. “Erm. I mean…
o’ course yeh’d like to know. So, yes. Why, certainly there’ll be a test.
This is a class, init?”
Apparently emboldened by Trenton’s question, Ashley Doone spoke
up from the back row, “Only, we’ve never had a test in this class before,
Professor. Just practical examinations. I’ve stopped even bringing an ink
and quill to the barn with me when I go.”
“Yeah,” Nolan Beetlebrick added, glancing around for
encouragement from the rest of the class. “And why this sudden move to

the greenhouses for the rest of term? There’s no magical creatures here at
all. Just plants.”
Hagrid raised both of his huge hands as the class began to murmur.
“Th’ barn menagerie is off-limits until further notice. Nothin’ t’ be done
about it. The barn’s bein’… er… cleaned up. Again. With dangerous
potions an’ elixirs this time. Highly potent stuff, straight from Perfessor
Heretofore’s laboratory, don’cher know. So no one’s allowed in nor out
until further notice, not unless yeh wanna grow yerself a third ear and a
hinkypunk tail.”
James sensed Rose’s sidelong glance. He slid an eye toward her and
shrugged.
“Yeah,” Hagrid went on, warming to the topic. “As yeh know, I’ve
had to ship off most of the menagerie’s biggest an’ most dang’rous beasts,
jus’ in case any other Muggles come a-wanderin’ onto the grounds.
Ridiculous, o’ course, but orders is orders, an’ these ones come straight
from th’ Minister o’ Magic ‘imself. So there’s no point in havin’ class in
there anyways, least until further notice. Yeah, that’s about right.” He
nodded to himself with obvious satisfaction. “An’ that’s why I’ve asked
Perfessor Longbottom to let us use the north greenhouse for the rest o’ th’
term, and he was gracious enough t’ say yes. So. Today’s lesson will be on
Ambermuggins, a species o’ mimicking penguin indigenous to only a single
unplottable cavern in th’ South Pole. Unlike other mimicking birds, such as
common parrots, th’ Ambermuggin mimics only swear words and
embarrasin’ scatological euphemisms, thus their ban from p’lite society and
even th’ mos’ dodgy o’ magical zoos…”
An hour later, with pages of disjointed notes and a list of the
Ambermuggin’s favorite vulgarities crammed into their knapsacks, the class
filed muttering back out of the greenhouse, heading toward the castle and
lunch in the great hall. James and Rose remained just inside the entrance,
however, watching Hagrid as he bustled at the potting table again, humming
too loudly to himself as he gathered his things. Finally, with a sweep of his
huge coat, he rounded the table and tramped toward the door.
“And what, pray tell,” he asked gruffly, “are yeh both standin’
around for? I know fer a fact that Professor Votary is expectin’ you in
Ancient Runes in ‘alf an hour.”
Rose put a hand on her hip. “You’re ‘cleaning the barn’ again,
Hagrid? Really?”

“I won’t hear nary a word about it,” the half-giant said impatiently,
waving both hands about his head as if to ward off a cloud of doxies. He
pushed past James and Rose toward the door. “Jus’ you both mind yer
bus’ness an’ stay away from th’ barn. S’dang’rous, it is.”
He pushed out into the cold and damp of the grounds with James
and Rose following close behind. To James’ surprise, Ralph was waiting
just outside, leaning against the corner of the greenhouse.
“So what’s in the barn, Hagrid?” he asked, pushing upright as
Hagrid began to stump across the unbroken snow toward his hut.
“Empty stalls an’ potion fumes,” he called back, “Yeh’ve no idea
how hard it is scrubbin’ up decades o’ hippogriff guano. Get yerselves off
t’ lunch now, an’ not another word.”
“Actually,” Ralph countered, “I think we know plenty well how
hard it is to scrub the barn, considering we just did that very thing with
Filch back before the holidays.”
Hagrid scoffed. “Yar, well what Argus Filch calls clean and I calls
clean are two very different things.”
James was both annoyed and relieved that Ralph had joined them as
they trudged along behind Hagrid. He still hadn’t forgiven Ralph for
blabbing to Millie about the break-up, and he was sincerely dismayed about
Ralph’s dueling performance against Professor Odin-Vann, but things just
felt wrong when he and Ralph weren’t on the same side. For the moment,
he decided to let everything else go.
Trotting to catch up to Hagrid, James said, “Ralph here is Head Boy,
you know. He would’ve heard about some big plan to quarantine the barn.
Wouldn’t you?” He glanced at Ralph meaningfully.
“Er, yeah,” Ralph nodded. “That’s a need-to-know kind of thing, it
is. As Head Boy, I should be keeping curious younger years away from the
barn. If it’s as dangerous as you say it is, of course.”
Hagrid only chuckled to himself as he strode through the snow, his
boots leaving great, slushy plow-prints. “Wellnow, I appreciate th’ offer,
Mr. Head Boy, but believe it or not, I can secure a barn jus’ fine on my
own. Already magically sealed th’ place up, top t’ bottom.” He paused and
drew out his pink umbrella wand, brandishing it with a twinkle in his eyes.
“I’ve come a long ways with my spellwork since yer parents’ day. There’s
nary a soul gettin’ in nor out o’ that barn until further notice.”
Pointedly, Rose asked, “And just who might be trying to get out of

the barn, Hagrid?”
Hagrid’s face snapped shut like a mousetrap. “Not another word,”
he said, stabbing a sausage-like index finger into the space between them,
and then pointing it at the castle. “Back to th’ school wit’ yeh now.”
Without waiting, he turned around and pushed through the gate,
striding into the front garden of his hut.
“This is about that dragon of yours, isn’t it?” Ralph called,
following Hagrid into the yard. “About that letter you got from Grawp,
talking about how Norberta’s all tetchy because she can smell that male
circus dragon on the wind.”
Rose put a hand over her eyes. “Oh, no, no, no…” she said, her
suspicions rising, “Hagrid, tell us you didn’t run off and do something
ridiculous without us, did you?”
The trio followed Hagrid to his door, where he stopped and turned
around again, adopting a beatific expression of innocence. With deliberate
calm, he said, “The barn’s bein’ cleaned, that’s all. I can show yeh
tomorrow if yeh like. Apart from a few heffalumps and a cage of wooly
woozles, that barn’s jus’ as empty as Mother Carter’s larder. If I do that,
will it convince yeh that there’s nothin’ t’ be suspicious about?”
James glanced aside at Rose and Ralph, who looked unconvinced.
He shrugged and suggested, “Why not show us now, Hagrid?”
Hagrid’s eyes flicked back and forth. “Well, cuz I’m a busy
perfessor, I am. An’ yeh lot have classes to get to. An’ like I said, s’not
safe at th’ moment. I ain’t kiddin’ about those cleanin’ potions. Right
noxious stuff, that is.”
Ralph raised his eyebrows. “In other words, whatever is in there
now will be moved by tomorrow.”
“Gor!” Hagrid protested, dropping his façade of calm and turning
back to his hut. He unlatched the door and shoved it open. “Blimey! In all
my years I can’t say as I’ve ever met a bunch more doubtful, suspicious, or
untrusting as…”
He took a step inside his doorway and then froze in place, halting as
if he’d just spied an Acromantula crouched on his dining room table.
James, Ralph and Rose peered inside around the huge man, curious to see
what had caught his attention. There was no Acromantula. What they saw
instead was, if anything, even more surprising.
“It’s…” Rose breathed, ticking her eyes around the shocking sight

within. “It’s all so… clean!”
It was true. For the first time in James’ memory—perhaps for the
first time in forever—the interior of the hut was absolutely and utterly
spotless. The wooden floor gleamed with polish. The rafters were scoured
free of their customary cobwebs and layers of greasy, sooty dust. The
dishes and cups were stacked and shining in the hutch. Even the ashes of
the fireplace had been shoveled and swept, revealing the bare bricks
beneath. Trife, Hagrid’s bullmastiff dog, sat up on the rug before the
hearth, allowing his tongue to loll out in a happy, doggy grin.
James was about to ask what had happened to the hut when the
answer, such as it was, revealed itself.
A pair of huge eyes opened beneath the table. Then, cautiously,
silently, a house elf stepped out into the light. It was a female elf, and
James recognized her immediately. The last time he had seen her had been
in the living room of the Vandergriff’s house in Blackbrier Quoit. She wore
the glove that her former mistress had given her. It drooped loose on her
thin arm, still stained with dried pudding.
“I’m sorry, Master Hagrid,” Heddlebun said in her thin, high voice.
“I finished cleaning the barn already. So I came here instead. I do hope…”
Her eyes flicked around the hut, and then worryingly back to Hagrid, “that
you don’t mind?”

Hagrid’s plan, such as it was, turned out to be just as nuanced and
subtle as one might expect from a half-giant who had once hidden a maneating spider in a school cupboard, feeding it kitchen scraps.
“So,” Rose sighed heavily, her brow knitted as she sat at his huge
table, a cup of tea long-since cooled before her, “you’re going to take your
magical ship to the edge of London on the Thames, collect Norberta by
night from Grawp and Prechka, bring her back in the ship’s hold, and then
hide her in the barn until the circus leaves London or you can arrange a new

home for her.”
“No!” Ralph said for the umpteenth time, his face brick-red with
impatient incredulity. “How many times do I have to say that this is all
completely daft?!”
Hagrid covered his eyes with both of his enormous, ham-like hands
and plunked his elbows onto the table. “I knows,” he said miserably. “I
knows it’s daft. But what’m I s’posed ter do?” He dropped his hands to the
table and looked from Ralph to Rose to James. “Norberta can’t stay in the
mountains! She won’t! You heard the letter, same as me! Grawp and
Prechka can’t keep an eye on ‘er, not with their own tribe dealin’ with
Muggles a-comin’ onto their lands and all the stress o’ stayin’ hid or gettin’
ready t’ fight! B’sides, the arrangement’s already made! They’ll be there
with Norberta tomorrow night, in an old abandoned wharf, at ‘alf-past one
in the mornin’!”
Rose nodded, merely confirming the details. “And you’ve got a
house elf helping you for some reason, because she can…” She raised her
eyebrows patiently.
“Soothe the savage beast,” Hagrid sighed, glancing aside at
Heddlebun, who stood in the corner on her chair, her shoulders hunched,
her bulging eyes alert, ticking from one speaker to the next.
“Heddlebun is a beast-speaker, Miss,” the elf offered, not for the
first time. “Heddlebun learned it from her father, Bedderhum, who was in
charge of our former master’s stables, back when they had stables.”
“So you can keep Norberta soothed and under control during the
transfer,” Rose nodded again, considering. “Since she’ll be closer to the
city, right close to the male dragon that she’s been sniffing out for the past
month. You have the ability to keep a Norwegian Ridgeback, who’s in heat
and smelling a male dragon, still and quiet within sight of a major Muggle
city?”
Heddlebun nodded without hesitation. “It’s an elfish talent, Miss,
and Heddlebun is the best at it of her kind.”
“Well, that certainly is convenient,” James huffed crossly, folding
his arms over his chest.
“James!” Rose scolded. “Are you accusing this poor elf of lying?”
“No,” James sat up in his chair. “I’m accusing her of dumping a
pudding all over Mrs. Vandergriff’s head, all because she lost her job to a
Muggle! The lying bit is just a strong suspicion, not an accusation.”

A high, keening sound arose in the hut as James said this. He
assumed that it was Hagrid’s kettle preparing to whistle, and then realized,
with some dismay, that the noise was emanating from the elf herself where
she stood in the shadows. She was holding back a mounting wail of misery,
but only just barely. Her lips trembled with the effort and huge, shining
tears welled in her eyes, glistening in the firelight.
“Oh, now look what yeh’ve done, James!” Hagrid reproached,
reaching for the elf and patting her on one bone-thin shoulder, nearly
knocking her over. “There, there, Heddlebun. He din’t mean it…”
“Of course I meant it!” James exclaimed. “I watched it happen! I
barely stopped her from blaming it on one of the Muggle servants! Not that
he didn’t deserve it, being a right obnoxious wazzock.”
“Well, maybe you should’ve let her!” Rose countered. “The poor
thing had lost her whole reason for being! Whole generations of her family
have served the Vandergriffs, only to be swept under the rug in favor of…
of… paid help!”
“MMmmmmWAAAAAHHHH!!” Heddlebun suddenly burst out,
no longer able to hold in her wretchedness. “Heddlebun is a BAD ELF!
Heddlebun ruined mistress’ dress! Heddlebun was dismissed from service
because she is a horrible, terrible, nasty, AWFUL house elf!”
To James’ increasing dismay, the elf lunged and grabbed Rose’s
teacup, then smashed it over her own head. Even before the shards finished
pattering off the walls, she swiped at James’ own cup and repeated the
action, smashing it to bits against her forehead and spattering cold tea in
every direction. She reached next for Hagrid’s stoneware mug, but Hagrid
still had his fingers hooked into its handle. The elf only accomplished
yanking herself off the chair she’d been standing on and collapsing beneath
the table. James winced at the knock-tumble of her body as it hit the plank
floor. A moment later, her wails resumed, only faintly muffled.
“Heddlebun!” Rose cried, scrambling from her chair and ducking
under the table. A moment later, she collected the elf into her arms,
cradling the spindly body as if were a kitten, and retreated to the hearth,
where she turned back, tilting a baleful, warning eye at James. Not another
word, her gaze commanded.
James crossed his arms again and frowned defiantly.
The elf continued to wail. “Put Heddlebun down! Heddlebun is a
horrid creature! Heddlebun deserves punishment!”

“Wherever did she learn this?” Rose raised her voice over the elf’s
wails, addressing the question to Hagrid. “Surely the Vandergriff’s never
beat her?”
James shook his head disgustedly. “It’s an act,” he answered, half to
himself, although he saw that Ralph had heard him. “Got to be. She’s not
to be trusted.”
Ralph saw this as further evidence of his larger point. “This is all a
load of cobblers! You can see that, right?”
“There’s nothin’ t’ be done about it,” Hagrid declared, smacking the
table with the flat of his hand, making the remaining dishes rattle. “Fer
better or worse, the plan’s goin’ forward. Heddlebun an’ I leave tomorrow
night at midnight. By the nex’ mornin’, we’ll either have Norberta in the
barn, or I’ll be in Azkaban.”
“Ralph,” James said seriously, looking aside at his friend, “You’re
not going to… you know… go to Headmaster Merlin or anything about
this, are you?”
Ralph drew a hand down his face miserably. “I should, this time. I
really should, and you bloody well know it.”
Still holding Heddlebun’s limp, hitching body in her arms, Rose
said, “But you’re not going to. Are you?”
Ralph glared at Rose fiercely for a moment, his jaw firm, and then
sank back into his chair, defeated. “Of course not. I’m no tattle-tale.”
“Not this time,” James couldn’t resist muttering.
“That’s good to know, Ralph,” Rose sighed, laying Heddlebun
gently on the hearthrug next to Trife, who sniffed her head, and then licked
her drooping, bat-wing ear. “Because if you tattle, you can’t be allowed to
come along.”
Ralph spluttered, going rigid in his chair again. “Come along!? I’m
not coming along! None of us is!”
“Of course we are,” Rose corrected him firmly. “We went over this
when we translated the letter from Grawp. Hagrid’s like family to us. Has
been since our parents were little. In fact, if James’ and my parents hadn’t
helped Hagrid out with Norberta back when she was still baby Norbert
burning char-marks on this very table, we wouldn’t even have this problem,
now, would we? Come to think of it, we’re just finishing what they
started.”
Ralph shook his head derisively. “You’ve been reading too much of

Revalvier’s books.”
“No,” Hagrid commented with a shrug, “That part is all true.
Perfessor Revalvier interviewed me special. There, you can still see the
scorch marks from Norberta’s first flames…” He traced a finger along an
old black stain and hitched a sniff.
“Seriously,” James said, trying to inject a note of calm rationality
into his voice, glancing back and forth between Rose and Ralph. “You
know Hagrid’s right. If this goes all pear-shaped, we’re not talking
detention. We’re looking at actual legal trouble, the kind that doesn’t get
fixed by a letter from our parents.”
“James, you and I both know that they don’t send school students to
Azkaban for this sort of thing,” Rose chided, lifting her chin. “But they do
send adult wizards who already have tetchy legal records. If Hagrid goes
through with his plan alone—I’m sorry, Hagrid,” she offered the half-giant
an affectionately stern look, “But you’ll get caught. You and Heddlebun
both. You’ll go to Azkaban. And Heddlebun, I don’t know what they do to
house elves that break the law, but it’s got to be even worse than losing your
service. However,” she turned her gaze back to James and Ralph again,
daring them to argue with her, “if we go along to help, nobody will face any
consequences at all, because we won’t get caught.”
She met James’ eyes and a ghost of a smile twitched the corners of
her mouth. James tried not to smile back, but the moment he made the
attempt, the task became impossible.
Ralph glared at both of them in disbelief. “You’re enjoying this,” he
exclaimed, shaking his head in dark wonderment. “Aren’t you!? You’re
both completely off your onions!”
Rose quelled her smile and approached Ralph. Putting her hand on
the table near his, but not quite touching him, she asked, “Are you in,
Ralph? We need you. We’re not a team without you.”
Hagrid spoke up, “No, Ralph! I can’t ask yeh…” He shook himself
and glanced around at the others, “I can’t ask any of yeh t’ risk—”
“Of course I’m in,” Ralph admitted, rolling his eyes and slumping
onto his crossed elbows. “Who am I kidding? Oh, I’m the worst Head Boy
ever.”
“Maybe you are,” Rose agreed gently, placing her hand on Ralph’s
shoulder. “But that’s exactly why we love you.”

17. CONSPIRACY OF THE DRAGON
Friday’s schedule was unforgiving under the best of conditions, and
much less so, James realized, when awaiting a midnight adventure that,
despite Rose’s purported confidence, could well end in monumental
disaster. The morning began with a double Astronomy class in the high
tower classroom. The fire had been stoked against a late winter storm,
making the room almost stiflingly hot as the ancient Astronomy professor,
Aurora Sinistra, droned on and on, calculating endless triangulation charts
and plotting the orbits of planets, moons, and comets in her cracked, wispy
voice.
James leaned with his chin on his right hand, struggling to stay
awake amidst the cloying warmth and the monotony of the lecture. Next to
him, Ralph doodled aimlessly on his parchment, adding superfluous
underlines, circles, and arrows to his half-hearted notes.
James tried to imagine what they would find that night: Norberta
hiding in an empty wharf warehouse on the edge of London, huffing the air
impatiently between the nervous figures of Grawp and Prechka, who would
be terrified themselves this close to the gleaming lights and noise of the
city. How would the three of them get there in the first place? How would
two giants (Prechka was over twenty feet tall, James knew) sneak through

the outskirts of a major Muggle metropolis, especially with a forty-foot
dragon in tow? The whole affair seemed preposterous from top to bottom.
And yet, James had to admit, at least to himself, that it was the very
preposterousness of the mission that gave it an air of tantalizing, haphazard
exhilaration. It had been over two years since James had been on any
adventure more risky than a midnight sneak to the kitchens for a bag of
crisps. He was due. And Rose, it seemed, felt exactly the same way.
Ralph, of course, was having none of it. He groused about the plan
under his breath the entire way to lunch, and then offered every conceivable
worst-case scenario he could think up as they made their way to Alchemy.
“What if Grawp and Prechka can’t control Norberta while they’re
waiting for us in the wharf?” he fretted, speaking quietly and rapidly as they
walked. “What if we get there and Norberta’s already escaped into
London?”
“Then I guess it won’t be our problem, will it?” James muttered
with a shrug. “We come home and read about it in tomorrow’s Daily
Prophet.”
Ralph shook his head, clearly dissatisfied with James’ answer.
“What if we get Norberta onto the ship and are spotted by, I don’t know, a
police boat or something? Spotlights everywhere, and shouting bullhorns,
and people with badges yelling ‘halt!’”
“Maybe we let Norberta take a swipe at them,” James suggested,
aiming for Zane Walker style glibness. “If she gulps down one or two of
them, the rest are bound to get the message and let us be.”
Ralph glared aside at him, obviously ill-amused. James wished
Rose was along to rationalize away all of Ralph’s concerns, but she was
busy with her own classes until dinnertime.
Fortunately, Alchemy and Divination occupied the rest of the
afternoon, then, after a hurried dinner, Ralph announced his plan to return to
the Slytherin dungeons for the evening, citing homework. James had a
feeling that homework was the least of Ralph’s concerns, it being Friday
night, but was happy enough for a reprieve from the big boy’s constant
litany of frets about the upcoming mission.
Leaving him at the bannister, James whispered, “We meet just
outside your common room at midnight, right? Hagrid will come unlock
the moonpool beneath the lake.”
“Don’t remind me,” Ralph groused, tossing up his hands and barely

resisting the urge to clamp them over his ears. “Like, seriously, don’t
remind me! I want to forget about this whole bleedin’ plan.”
“No backing out now, Ralph,” James prodded, leaning close to his
friend. “Nobody knows when we’ll need you and that unbeatable wand of
yours.”
“Yeah, yeah,” Ralph rolled his eyes, reluctantly mollified. Then he
added, “It sure didn’t help me against Odin-Vann the other day.”
James glanced at the boy where he stood on the first step down. “I
was going to ask you about that. You were like a force of nature. What got
into you?”
“Are you serious?” Ralph looked up, meeting James’ eyes with a
piercing glare. “You saw the way he was dueling. Where’d that come from
all of a sudden? That isn’t natural, and you know it. Something’s up with
him, and his wand, and… and… everything about him. I checked up on
him, you know.”
James had been about to comment on Odin-Vann’s mysterious new
dueling ability when Ralph’s last statement caught him off guard. “You—
you did what?”
“I checked up on him.” Ralph repeated firmly. “Something we all
should have done before traipsing off to the World Between the Worlds on
his orders. I sent a note to Ted Lupin over in Hogsmeade.”
James blinked at Ralph, realizing that his instinct, if not his
suspicion, was dead-on. Odin-Vann had indeed gone to school with Ted at
one point, along with a few others they could have spoken to, such as
Damien Damascus, Sabrina Hildegard, and the rest of the Gremlins. He felt
foolish for not thinking of the idea himself, but then shook his head, as if
clearing it.
“Petra trusts Odin-Vann, and I trust her,” he said. “But you haven’t
liked him since you first clapped eyes on him, have you? So, what did Ted
say?”
“Not much good,” Ralph said, and then sighed and glanced away.
“Not much bad, either. Apparently Odin-Vann kept to himself most of the
time. A real bookish type. Quiet, shy, the kind of bloke that hardly gets
noticed by anyone other than the sort of bullies who sniff out people like
that. He got pushed around a bit, according to Ted. He was never good
with a wand, so much so that people teased him, telling him he was threefifths squib, saying he could do better just to poke people with his wand for

all the good it did him in a duel.”
James nodded reluctantly. “That sure hasn’t changed much, has it?
He can barely get off a tickling jinx if the pressure’s on. And there’s no
pressure like being bullied all the time in school.”
“I don’t know if he was bullied all the time,” Ralph hedged, “but
apparently he felt like he was. That’s partly why Petra made friends with
him. Ted says that Odin-Vann and Petra were close from the moment they
met, but he never thought anything of it. It was never a romantic thing.
She was just a kid then. For her own part, she just seemed to feel sorry for
Odin-Vann, especially when the older years gave him grief. They hung out
in the library together mostly, since he could usually be found there
surrounded by piles of books, almost like he was hiding behind them.”
“Doesn’t sound like much of a thing,” James said with a shrug.
“That could have been you if Zane and I hadn’t met you that first day on the
train and drug you kicking and screaming out of your shell.”
“He’s smart, though,” Ralph added, his face firm. “That’s what Ted
remembers most. Scary smart when it came to potions and charms, any
kind of magic he could do by himself, with no pressure. Ted says that
Odin-Vann used to hang out in Flitwick’s classroom for hours some nights,
just writing out charms and spells, studying them, trying to modify them to
make them more powerful or invent new ways of casting them. Flitwick
himself apparently said Odin-Vann was his sharpest student ever, but Ted
thinks even he was a little wigged out by the kid. He was too quiet and
withdrawn to be that hyper-smart. Like, he’d be president of Igor house if
he was an American, always secretly dreaming up crazy plans for how to
take over the world.”
“Can’t hate a bloke for being smart,” James observed, “So what’s
your problem with him?”
Ralph shook his head, eyes narrowed. “Well, for one thing, he sure
isn’t bad with a wand anymore. What happened to him all of a sudden?”
James shrugged. The question had occurred to him as well. “I don’t
know. Practice, maybe?”
“Maybe,” Ralph conceded doubtfully. “But there’s more to it than
that. I can’t put my finger on it. But I don’t trust him. More, I think he
knows it. And that’s what makes me the most suspicious.”
“Why, because he’s trying so hard to win you over?”
Ralph glanced up at James again, surprised. “No. Because he’s not

trying to at all.”
A moment later, Ralph waved James goodbye and tromped down
the stairs, clearly in a hurry. James watched him go, asking himself for the
first time what Ralph might be up to at such an hour. It certainly wasn’t
homework. Was it something related to his suspicions about Professor
Odin-Vann? More, was Ralph right to be suspicious?
James shook his head, dismissing the question. It was only Ralph.
He probably just had boring, tedious Head Boy responsibilities to attend to.
Without another thought, James turned and ran up the ascending
staircase, jumping the trick step and taking the rest two and a time.

“This would be loads easier if we had the invisibility cloak,” Rose
whispered as they skulked through the corridor at midnight, skirting the
torches and ducking behind statues.
“I know,” James said tersely. “You can stop mentioning it.”
“I’m only saying,” Rose went on blithely, peering around the flank
of a stone centaur, “A true gremlin would have found a way to nick the
invisibility cloak without his father knowing, just for situations like this.”
“No other gremlin’s dad is head of the Department of Aurors,”
James grumbled. “Why are we stopping? The Slytherin common room
door is just around the bend.”
“Shh!” Rose hissed, flapping a warning hand toward James, still
peering around the statue.
James held his breath and listened. A distant noise grew gradually
louder: a sort of lilting rasp, a gravelly voice humming a very old tune that
James knew from his grandmother Weasley’s wireless programs, only this
version sounded like it was being played on a broken kazoo in a hornet’s
nest.
Glancing back, Rose mouthed, “Filch!” She lunged back into the
shadows, elbowing James aside.

“Ow!” James gasped. “Get off my foot!”
“Hush!” Rose breathed urgently, elbowing him in the ribs.
Footsteps accompanied the humming song now, shuffling closer,
rounding the bend ahead. Amazingly, Filch seemed to have chosen the
dungeon corridors to prowl tonight, and was headed right toward them.
Then, worst of all, he began to sing.
“Oh, I’ve got a girl, a beeyotiful girl, the sweetest girl ever could
be,” he wheezed under his breath, singing in a near monotone. “And for
that sweet girl, with raven-dark curls, I’ll buy her a diamond and tea…”
The old caretaker’s voice came from just past the statue now. His
shadow lengthened along the stone floor, swaying, accompanied by the
scratch-shuffle of his boots. Another shadow trotted alongside, and James’
blood went cold. It was the ancient Kneazle cat, Mrs. Norris, sniffing the
floor, her claws ticking and clicking lightly as she approached.
Filch’s foot came into sight just beyond the statue’s stone plinth and
Mrs. Norris stole ahead of it. She turned immediately, swinging the lamp of
her green-gold gaze directly onto James and Rose where they hid. She
opened her mouth to hiss at them.
And then, another voice joined in with Filch’s song, this one rough
and booming, echoing from behind him.
“An’ we’ll dance, we two, in a big curlicue, by th’ light o’ th’
strawb’ry moon…”
Filch’s boot stuttered in surprise, and then scraped the floor as it
withdrew, pivoting back around. Mrs. Norris, however, didn’t blink or turn
toward the newcomer. She closed her mouth and a high, feline growl coiled
in her throat.
“Rubeus!” Filch called gruffly, covering his surprise with anger.
“Gods, don’t torture me with your singin’. What are you doing about at this
hour?”
James heard Hagrid’s clumping footsteps and dared to relax ever so
slightly. Next to him, Rose shooed silently at Mrs. Norris with her hands.
The cat opened her pink mouth in a low yowl, showing all of her extremely
pointy yellow teeth.
“Can’t sleep a wink,” Hagrid answered mournfully. “It’s th’ full
moon an’ the snowstorm. Too much white outside. Chases th’ sleep clean
away. Thought I’d come down to th’ pool an’ work on Gertrude.”
“Ye gods,” Filch moaned again in disgust. “How many times ‘ave I

told you, you can’t name a ship ‘Gertrude’. It’s an embarrassment, it is.”
Hagrid seemed unperturbed. “Tell you what, Argus, I’ll consult you
afore namin’ the next one.”
“We’ll both be dead an’ buried before you can afford another boat.
O’ that I’m certain,” Filch wheezed. “Go on with you, then. I’ve got
rounds to do.”
With Filch’s back turned, Rose dared to aim a kick at Mrs. Norris.
The cat flattened her ears to her skull and swiped at Rose’s trainer, drawing
a ragged slash with her claws.
“S’fortunate I came across yeh, actually, Argus,” Hagrid said
suddenly, still unseen around the centaur statue. “Er, it seems I’ve come
down to th’ dungeons without my ring-key to the Moonpool, fool that I am.
Would yeh mind?”
Filch hemmed and hawed, grumbled and scratched at the rough
flannel of his trousers. Then, James heard the sound of footsteps shuffling
back down the corridor. “You’ll forget your own head one o’ these days, I
wager,” Filch muttered.
“Prob’ly right,” Hagrid agreed cheerily. “I suppose I left the ring
with my keys in the greenhouse after class.”
“Aye,” Filch muttered, taking the hint. “Professor Hagrid.”
There was a faint jangle, then the clink and scritch of the ring-key
slotting into place. A clack of sliding bolts echoed down the corridor.
Rose kicked at Mrs. Norris again, this time connecting with the old
kneazle’s hindquarters. She spun, hissed, and battened onto the cuff of
Rose’s jeans with her fore-claws. Rose throttled her ankle desperately,
trying to shake the cat off, but to no avail.
For lack of a better idea, James drew his wand from his pocket and
aimed it at the hissing animal. “Acervespa!” he whispered.
The white lance of the stinging hex struck Mrs. Norris between her
bulging eyes and she somersaulted backwards, paws and tail flailing. She
writhed in mid-air and struck the floor facing backwards, her legs splayed,
the fur on her back raised into bristling hackles.
“Mrs. Norris!” Filch barked, raising his voice impatiently. “Come
along now. We’re not huntin’ mice this night.”
“True enough, Mrs. Norris,” Hagrid chuckled. “S’matter o’ fact,
I’m fairly certain I saw some students making their way t’ the Astronomy
tower with mischief in mind. I called after ‘em, but they don’t fear me like

they do the two of yeh.”
“That’s because yer a great ol’ softie, Professor,” Filch growled.
“Come along, Missus. We’ve got bigger fish t’ fry this night.”
Mrs. Norris shook herself, snapped her pink jaw at the air as if a
cloud of gnats was circling her head, and then darted in a frantic circle,
hissing at her own tail. The stinging hex had apparently scrambled the old
cat’s brain, at least for the moment. James couldn’t quite bring himself to
feel sorry for it. Finally, a little drunkenly, she trotted away, bumping the
centaur plinth as she went.
As James listened, still cramped into the statue’s shadow with Rose,
he heard Filch’s shuffling departure as the old caretaker hurried back to the
stairs, Mrs. Norris clicking along behind. Hagrid resumed his song, singing
in a gruff baritone, “An’ happy we’ll be, my Princess an’ me, like the dish
what run off with the spoon…”
James and Rose emerged from behind the statue and ran lightly to
meet Hagrid, who looked back at them with no surprise, still singing the old
song. When they joined him, he bowed his head and muttered, “Saw yer
foot kickin’ at ol’ Mrs. Norris, Rosie.” There was a chastising note in his
voice.
“She was about to get us caught,” Rose whispered defensively. “All
I did was try to shoo her away. James shot her with a stinging hex!” She
turned and raised her eyebrows at him. He glared back at her
reproachfully.
To change the subject, he asked Hagrid, “Did you really forget your
ring-key?”
Hagrid chuckled drily and brandished the emerald ring on his left
hand. “’Course not. But I had to get Argus away from yeh somehow, din’t
I?”
He reached for the partially open door to the subterranean pool, but
it suddenly clunked shut of its own accord. A second later, the latch rattled
and the door pushed open again, this time revealing the golden firelight of
the Slytherin common room. Ralph bustled out, bumped hard into Hagrid,
and nearly rebounded back inside again, dropping something as he did. It
was a rubber duck, once bright yellow, now faded and dulled with
fingerprints. He recovered, grabbed at it, and blinked guiltily up at the halfgiant.
“Sorry I’m late,” he whispered, trying vainly to act nonchalant.

“Mind if I bring along a… erm, little friend?”

“What do you mean, ‘a little friend’?” James asked as the quartet
hurried down the rough terraces of the subterranean lake. “That’s your
Protean duck. Who do you need to send a message to?”
Unlike the last time they were there, the air over the waves was icy
cold, misted with snow crystals. The cavern waterway was fringed with a
brittle crust of ice, but the inverted lake above was frozen completely solid,
forming a bulging black depth, dense and inky as onyx. Hagrid’s blockade
runner, Gertrude, rocked low in the darkness, moored to a stone jetty.
Waves slapped restlessly at its long hull.
“Well, like you and Rose said,” Ralph huffed, his breath forming
gray clouds, “we can’t afford to get caught, no matter what. So I sorta
thought there’d be safety in numbers. And… well, I made arrangements.”
“Hold on,” Rose said, turning around in front of Ralph and stopping
him, barely, with a hand on his chest. “You made ‘arrangements’?”
“What’s all this?” Hagrid called, distracted, as he uncoiled the ship’s
rope from an iron bollard. “Yeh lot comin’ or what?”
Ralph shifted nervously from foot to foot. “I just felt more
comfortable with the idea of having a little back-up is all…”
James narrowed his eyes. “Your Protean duck?”
Ralph tried to conceal the yellow rubber duck in his big hands. “No,
not the… look, it’s nothing. Can we just get on with it?”
“Let’s take a look, Ralph,” James said, reaching for the duck. Ralph
pivoted and pulled the duck away, inadvertently placing it within easy
grasping distance of Rose, who plucked it from his fist.
“Don’t squeeze it!” Ralph warned, turning in alarm and raising both
hands, but he was too late.
“Grotty blighter!” the duck’s squeaky voice declared.
Instantly, a burst of pale blue smoke exploded between Rose and

Ralph. Out of it, a voice seemed to resolve out of immense distance,
forming a single word: “GeronimooOOO!”
And a figure burst from the blue smoke as if in full sprint, plowing
into James and knocking him clean off his feet. He landed on the cold stone
floor with the figure atop him, knocking the breath from his lungs in a
whoosh.
“Ooff!” the newcomer exclaimed in James’ ear. “Who’d I land on?
No way the Ralphinator would go down that easy. Are you a bad guy? I
was told there might be bad guys.”
“Zane Walker?!” Rose cried, her voice so high that it was barely
audible. “How…! What…!?”
Ralph rolled his eyes and snatched the duck back out of Rose’s
hand. “I asked him by floo to be ready if we needed any help,” he declared
impatiently. “He was just supposed to be on standby in case we ran into
trouble.”
“Brrr!” Zane shivered, clambering off James and dragging him back
to his feet. “Cold here! Where are we? Antarctica?” He was dressed in
his Zombie house uniform, but with the tie loosened and the sleeves of his
shirt unbuttoned and flapping. “Good thing I wasn’t having a swim in the
gymnasium, eh?”
James wheezed, “But… how are you here? No one can Apparate
onto Hogwarts grounds!”
Zane straightened and hugged himself against the cold. “No
Apparation required. It’s another Experimental Communications test
project.” He raised his right hand and pushed back his sleeve. A yellow
symbol was printed neatly on the inside of his wrist.
“Is that,” Rose squinted, and then pointed vaguely toward Ralph,
“his Protean duck tattooed on your arm?”
Zane dropped his arm again.
“Does the phrase ‘quantum
chromodynamics’ mean anything to you?”
James merely stared at his friend.
“Me neither,” Zane agreed. “But old Stonewall’s been yakking
about it for months. Quarks and gluons, freons and peons, I don’t even
know. Point is, the ink in this here temporary tattoo is technomancically
identical to Ralph’s duck. Squeezing it once causes the atomic waveform to
collapse, bringing me here in an instant. I’ll need to warn Raphael about
that re-entry. Phoo! You did explain it all to them, right?” This last he

addressed to Ralph.
“This just goes to show,” Ralph said, glaring reproachfully at Rose,
“Just because you see a duck, doesn’t mean you should squeeze it!”
“First rule of technomancy,” Zane agreed sagely.
From the jetty, Hagrid called quizzically, “Walker? Is that you?
What in purple blazes…!”
“Hi, Hagrid!” Zane said, turning and sauntering to the ship. “Nice
place you have here! You don’t happen to have a coffee maker aboard that
thing, do you?”
Rose turned back to Ralph, planting her hands on her hips.
“What?” Ralph demanded, shoving the Protean duck into his coat
pocket. “He was just supposed to be a back-up plan! I told him to be ready
even though we probably wouldn’t need him.”
James sighed, “How much does he know about the plan?”
“Almost nothing,” Ralph said, sagging a little. “He said he
preferred it that way, and quoted something about crouching lions and
hidden dinosaurs.”
“That sounds like Zane,” James nodded.
“And what sends him back, then?” Rose asked, still glowering at
Ralph.
“Two squeezes of the duck.”
Rose jabbed out her hand, palm up, silently demanding the duck
back.
“Hold on,” James said, gently pushing Rose back a step. “Now that
he’s here, he may as well come along. If he wants to. And of course he
does.”
“Are you serious?” Rose demanded, turning her glare onto James.
“Is there anyone else you want to invite along? The Minister of Magic?
Rig Mortis and the Stiff-tones, maybe?”
“There’s safety in numbers,” James soothed, pressing Rose down
toward the jetty, where Zane had joined Hagrid. “Besides, it’s Zane.” He
turned to Ralph and offered him a wink. Ralph nodded wryly.
“Hey guys!” Zane called up to them, pointing at the gangplank as
Hagrid levitated it into place. “We’re gonna go rescue a dragon! By boat!
Pretty wild and crazy stuff, eh?”
Rose groaned.
Five minutes later, they stood on the bow of ship, blinking in the

light of a single lantern and adjusting to the incessant sway and rock of the
waves. Heddlebun was already aboard and waiting for them in the
wheelhouse, nervously wringing her knuckly hands. Hagrid and Rose
began bustling about the deck, tugging ropes taut and retying knots, closing
and battening portholes, checking hatches, calling to each other in
indecipherable boat jargon. They enlisted Ralph’s help, since he was big
enough to lug the coils of rope and swing the enormous booms. From
James’ vantage point, the ship looked nearly as long as the Quidditch pitch,
but very narrow, divided along its length by a covered paddlewheel and the
wheelhouse. Two masts jutted up, one each from the bow and stern,
festooned with rigging and limp canvas sails.
“So what’s the name of this tub?” Zane asked James, holding onto
the railing for support.
“The Gertrude, apparently,” James answered.
Zane nodded. “That’s an atrocious name.”
“Finally, something you and Filch agree on.”
Zane lowered his voice, “So, what’s the news from Petra?”
James glanced aside at his friend. Zane’s American directness
always took a few minutes to adjust to. He considered how to answer for
several seconds as the boat rocked beneath them, Rose, Ralph, and Hagrid
still calling to each other over the stern.
Finally, he said, “We kissed.”
Zane nodded slowly, meaningfully. “That’s sure not going to make
things any easier, is it?”
James sighed and leaned against the bulkhead.
“And Merlin?” Zane prodded. “Any word from him since the World
Between the Worlds?”
James shrugged. “Nothing. I don’t think he saw us at all. He was
too busy with Petra.”
“She ended up with the crimson thread from the loom,” Zane
recalled. “But Merlin got her brooch. Do you think she’ll leave this reality
without it?”
James hadn’t considered the question. The whole point of going to
the World Between the Worlds was to capture back the symbolic thread,
without which Petra couldn’t hope to assume her new role in it’s native
dimension. But he remembered now how quietly bereft she had been about
losing her father’s brooch. He shook his head uncertainly. “I don’t suppose

it matters. She’ll be leaving this world forever.”
“All the more reason to take the most meaningful memento of all
with her,” Zane said with uncharacteristic gravity. “Maybe Merlin knew
what he was doing when he captured it. Maybe he sees it as a way to lure
Petra to him.”
James wanted to agree, but couldn’t. “You haven’t seen her lately.
She’s committed. She’ll fight anyone who gets in her way, including any of
us. And she has the worst sort of help imaginable. Both Judith and the
shred of Voldemort in her blood seem to want her to go through with it.”
Zane cinched up the corner of his mouth and cocked his head in the
thoughtful expression that James knew so well. “But why would they want
to help her? Judith especially? Petra is her toe-hold in our world. The only
reason Judith can even exist here is because of the bargain that happened
when Petra killed Izzy’s mother. If Petra vanishes away to some other
dimension, Judith has no host here. She vanishes away, too. Right?”
James shrugged. “That’s the theory, I guess. So I don’t know why
Judith would want her to go through with the plan. All I know is that she
knows I don’t want Petra to leave, and she warned me to stay away from
her.”
“Sounds like a no-win situation, doesn’t it?” Zane offered, studying
James’ face by lantern light. “Either you lose Petra and Judith wins, or you
win Petra and the whole world pays for it.”
James had nothing to say to that. He bowed his head and pushed a
hand up into his hair, tugging at it.
Beneath them, the boat suddenly seemed to surge forward, throwing
both boys off balance.
“We’ve got time to make up,” Hagrid boomed from the
wheelhouse. “Ever’body inside or below decks! This is like to be a wee bit
bumpy!”
Stumbling against the increasing momentum of the ship, James and
Zane hurried to the wheelhouse, ducking in through the narrow metal door
on its side. There, they found Ralph, Rose, and Heddlebun gripping a brass
railing along a rust-stained rear wall. Before them, a console bristled with
instruments, dials, and levers, dominated by an enormous ship’s wheel.
Hagrid stood before this, gripping the wheel’s protruding handles and
turning it this way and that with tense concentration.
“It’s a wee bit tight just through here,” he muttered to himself.

“Just out of curiosity, Hagrid,” Zane asked brightly, moving
alongside Rose and gripping the brass railing with one hand. “How many
times have you done this?”
Hagrid offered a quick sidelong glance. “How many times? Oh.
Wellnow. Technic’ly…” He released one hand from the wheel, splayed his
fingers, and counted silently under his breath before admitting, “Erm.
Zero.”
Outside the expansive fore window of the wheelhouse, the bow of
the ship tilted and swayed, angling ponderously toward one of the giant
tunnel throats that surrounded the subterranean lake. Engraved across a
stone at its top was the word LONDON. On either side, iron braziers held
goblinfire torches. Their yellow light played over the black waves and
glimmered in the spray that pulsed on either side of the Gertrude’s prow.
“I sorta figured that,” Zane shrugged, firming his grip on the railing.
The ship began to accelerate as it neared the designated tunnel.
James realized that the lake water was funneling into the tunnel’s maw,
drawing the ship steadily forward as it approached. Hagrid threaded the
wooden wheel back and forth, muttering urgently under his breath.
“Hold on, now,” he announced, reaching forward and tugging a
large lever down with a thunk. “I’m told this is where it gets a bit hairy.”
A resounding clank and a thud shook the entire ship. James gasped
as the bow mast suddenly hinged ponderously backward like a falling tree,
dragging its rigging with it in a series of twangs and whip-like whooshes.
With a vibrating shudder, it folded over onto the wheelhouse, thumping into
place, and James realized this was a necessary maneuver if they were to fit
into the tunnel mouth without shearing the masts right off.
The ship sped forward, tugged into the rushing current, and the
tunnel yawned before them, as dark and featureless as a well. Then, with
sickening speed, the Gertrude plummeted inside.
James’ stomach lurched slowly, inexorably, up toward his throat and
he felt himself lighten in his shoes as the tunnel angled downward, drawing
the rushing lake water into a roaring rapid, dragging the ship dizzyingly into
its force. Hagrid kept his hands fisted on the ship’s wheel, but now he
seemed only to be hanging on for dear life, struggling to keep the ship
steady and facing forward against the titanic momentum of the tunnel river.
The only light was the lantern that swung from a post on the bow, now
tilted backward and swinging, casting wild shadows in the pool of its

dancing light. Dimly, spray erupted on either side of the Gertrude as its
prow dug into the current. Droplets blew back and blattered the window
like driving rain, blurring the view beyond, drumming loud enough to make
speech nearly impossible.
James wondered how long the journey would take. London was
quite some distance away. And yet he had some idea that this was not,
strictly speaking, a journey of mere miles. He sensed forces in play,
compressing time and space into something teasingly plastic. The Gertrude
rocked precipitously to starboard, riding the current as the river curved
right. The hull shuddered and jounced, and James had the terrible suspicion
that it was scraping the tunnel wall, grinding wood against stone. A few
moments later, this happened again, but to the left, with the ship rocking
hard to port and hanging there, compressing beneath the power of its own
inertia.
“How much farther, Hagrid?” Rose called, her voice a shrill ribbon
against the shuddering roar and blat of spray on glass.
“We’re a-gettin’ close,” Hagrid boomed back, leaning to consult a
large brass dial. James saw an ornate arrow on the dial shimmying close to
a heading printed in white letters: LONDON, THAMES. “We’ll surface
just around the Isle of Dogs, south of Canary Wharf!”
James was grateful to know that the rollicking journey was nearly
over. He wondered briefly how Norberta would handle the voyage back.
She would surely be terrified and cramped, lying low in the hold below
decks.
Then, James’ eyebrows shot up as he realized what Hagrid had just
said.
“What do you mean,” he shouted to the half-giant, “that we’ll
surface?”
Hagrid struggled with the wheel, his ham-sized fists bunched on the
protruding handles. “Like the Durmstangs back during the Triwizard
Tournament!” he bellowed. “We burst up to the surface! Don’ ask me how
it works. I jus’ know it does!”
The tunnel suddenly slanted upwards at a steep angle, forcing
James’ knees to buckle. The river ahead compressed and narrowed,
beginning to roar up over the bow in clapping waves, closing over it. The
lantern snuffed out, leaving nothing but perfect blackness, violent motion,
and deafening noise.

“But Hagrid!” James cried, struggling to be heard over the din, “The
Thames is frozen right now! First time in a decade! The surface will be as
hard as stone!”
It was too late to do anything about it. James didn’t even know if
anyone heard him. He felt small hands grasp onto his trouser-leg and
realized that it was Heddlebun groping in the dark for something to batten
onto.
When the bow struck, it hit with such force that every window
shattered. Hagrid rammed against the wheel hard enough to splinter and
snap it in two. James, Rose, Ralph, and Zane flung forward, stumbling
headlong against the console and its array of dials and instruments.
Shattered glass and freezing water sprayed in every direction, filling the air
and peppering James’ hair and face.
Blue light bloomed over the ship as it arrowed up, and then, as its
momentum exhausted, fell slowly forward, tilting down, down, as if it were
falling right over the edge of the world. Finally, with a thudding slam, it
smashed flat onto a heaving expanse, rocking, groaning deep in its hull, and
crunching against some brittle, ragged obstruction.
James flung pebbles of glass and ice from his hair and grappled
upright against the console. Cold air blew in through the broken window,
carrying a freight of fluffy snowflakes and the unmistakable city smells of
rotting rubbish, factory exhaust, and dead fish. Huge chunks of ice slid
back and forth on the Gertrude’s bow as the ship rocked, slowly coming to
rest. Beyond this, James recognized the hulking shapes of warehouses and
dark freighters looming in the fog. The Thames was indeed frozen over,
forming a pale blue highway marbled with white, except for the scarred
black hole that the Gertrude had smashed through.
“Holy hinkypunks,” Zane breathed, steadying himself next to
James. “I bet that was even better than the Aquapolis bubble tube you told
me about.” He considered this, and then shrugged. “Or worse, depending
on your perspective.”
“Worse,” Ralph moaned, clutching his head. “Definitely worse.”
“Everyone all right, then?” Hagrid said, climbing clumsily to his
feet and brushing broken ice from his shoulders. “Rosie? You OK?”
“I think we’re going to have to realign the rudder,” Rose said
breathlessly, shaking the hair out of her face. “If, that is, it’s still there.
James glanced down in weary annoyance. “We’re here. You can let

go of my leg now.”
Heddlebun turned her enormous eyes up to him in surprise, as if
she’d forgotten where she was. Then, sheepishly, she released her deathgrip on his shin and backed away, her ears drooping.
“Well then,” Hagrid sighed briskly, clapping his hands together. “I
guess we won’t have t’ remember where we parked, now, will we?”

The damage to the Gertrude was much more visible from the ice of
the Thames as they descended via Hagrid’s folding gangplank. Rose
stalked fretfully along the jagged edge of the frozen hole, ignoring the
precarious cracks and fissures, muttering to herself. Inside the hole, now
surrounded by gently heaving chunks and shards of pulverized ice, the ship
looked as if it had been squeezed in a giant fist. Sprung planks and
splintered decking were evident from stem to stern, and the once sleek
length of the hull now seemed to have a distinct and troubling angle to it,
causing the bow and stern to point slightly up out of the water, while the
mid-ship waterwheel and boathouse rode much lower in the waves than was
exactly comfortable to James’ eye.
“What were the odds, eh?” Hagrid said with a shrug. “This river
freezes over, what, every few decades? And it just had t’ ‘appen this year,
o’ course.” He seemed to view it as a mere humorous aside, rather than a
potentially debilitating stroke of fate.
“We lost the bow mast,” Rose called, her voice thin with distance as
she rounded the front of the ship. “And the bowsprit and masthead. The
rudder is hanging on by a toothpick, but that’s sort of academic, since the
wheel is smashed in two.” Behind Rose, Heddlebun slunk along closely,
wringing her hands, glancing around as if trying to see in every direction at
once. The house elf appeared exquisitely uncomfortable this close to the
Muggle city.
“We can reparo most o’ that,” Hagrid soothed, keeping his voice

low over the expanse of ice. “An’ what we can’t, we likely don’t need, at
least fer the journey back home. It’ll be fine, Rosie.”
“We can’t reparo what’s been torn off under the ice,” Rose said,
clearly struggling to control her exasperation. “But assuming enough bits
of the window glass are still scattered around the deck, we should at least be
able to seal up the wheelhouse and mend the wheel. We may get back
home, but just barely. Assuming there are no other unexpected disasters
along the way.”
Zane clapped Rose lightly on the shoulder. “That’s the spirit,
Rosie.”
She gave him a withering glare. James knew that it was a short list
of people who could get away with calling his cousin “Rosie”, and Zane
Walker was not one of them.
Ralph shook his head at the wounded ship, eyes wide. “Thanks, but
I think I’ll take a cab home, if you don’t mind.”
“It’ll be fine, Ralph,” James said, not fully believing it himself.
“We’ve rode in worse. Er… probably.” With some effort, he turned the big
boy around and the group began to cross the ice, heading into the shadow of
a ramshackle pier and the extravagantly derelict hulk of a warehouse
beyond. The rusty walls and roof of the structure sagged ominously. The
windows were enormous square sockets, fogged with grime wherever they
weren’t broken and gaping like shocked eyes. The decrepit building made
even the bedraggled Gertrude look like a showroom model by comparison.
“If all went well,” Hagrid said, boosting Rose onto the pier from the
ice, “Grawpie and Prechka should be awaitin’ just inside, along with
Norberta. We’ll get ‘er out, onto the ship, and be home before the clock
strikes two. Grawp and Prechka can be on their way back to the mountains
under cover o’ darkness. Neat as can be.”
Shivering as he climbed a metal ladder onto the concrete pier, Zane
said, “Your optimism is an inspiration to us all, Hagrid.”
Heddlebun stole from shadow to shadow, her huge eyes bulging as
she took in the unfamiliar sights. Rusted barges lined the pier, locked into
the ice and loaded with gloom. Snow skirled and wafted all around,
clouding the air and forming ghostly haloes around the security lights that
lined the pier, erected on leaning wooden poles. Hagrid paused just outside
the range of the nearest lamp and raised his right arm. In his hand he held
aloft what appeared to be a cigarette lighter. He clicked the button on its

barrel and the security light winked out.
In a low voice, James asked, “Where’d you get a Deluminator?”
Rose answered smugly, “I liberated it from dad’s dresser over the
holidays. That’s how a Gremlin does things. Feel free to take notes.”
Hagrid used the Deluminator to snuff the remaining lights along the
pier one by one as the troupe made their way along. They climbed ramps of
iron stairs to higher levels, and then followed a length of broken pavement
toward a line of enormous bay doors. Every door was closed and locked
with a rusted chain and padlock, except for the door at the very end, which
was wrenched up and badly dented, its chain dangling and swinging in the
low, whistling wind.
“That’s the one, then,” Hagrid nodded, clumping closer to the
looming warehouse. Keeping his voice low, he added, “Stay close now.
And keep quiet.”
Hugging himself and huddling next to Hagrid, Zane asked, “How do
we know they’re in there?”
As if in answer, a huge, grating noise shook the warehouse. The
metal doors rattled on their tracks and a few remaining windows tinkled,
shattering in their frames. A burst of yellow light briefly illuminated the
darkness inside, dissipating into orange flickers.
“Either that’s them,” James gulped, “Or the boundaries of the
magical world are way worse off than we thought.”
Hagrid crept into the shadow of the open bay door. Inside, just
visible in the gloom, was a cavernous space surrounded by banks of high
windows. A lacework of struts and girders crowded the upper reaches.
From these hung complicated machinery that James assumed had, at one
time, operated cranes for moving cargo.
Hagrid’s voice was an echoing rasp in the darkness as he called,
“Grawpie?”
Another grating grunt filled the space, and James smelled the
familiar chemical reek of Dragon breath. A burst of yellow flame
illuminated the pocked concrete floor, piles of old shipping crates, the
carcass of a lorry propped on blocks, and three dark bulks hiding behind it.
“Grawpie!” Hagrid cried, relieved, and hurried toward the lorry, the
others following close behind. “Prechka! And sweet Norberta! You made
it!”
James’ feet gritted on the broken concrete floor as he hurried to stay

close to Hagrid, but he faltered as the giants stepped out from behind the
lorry. He’d forgotten what it was like to be in close company with such
gigantic people. Grawp’s head peered over the lorry’s cab, his hair as thick
and matted as a thicket of briars, his Quaffle-sized eyes glimmering
reflections of the high windows. Prechka, however, dwarfed even him.
Looming amidst the girders high overhead, her head looked impossibly
small on the mountainous bulk of her shoulders. When her feet came down
on the concrete floor, it cracked and buckled. The rafters shook, sifting
thick dust down onto the smaller people below.
Grawp spoke with slow emphasis, in what he clearly thought was a
careful hush. “Brother Hagrid. Grawp and Prechka hide, but Norberta
loud. Norberta smell other dragon in Sea of Light.”
“There, there,” Hagrid reached and patted his half-brother on the
elbow. “Yeh done well, Grawpie. Both o’ yeh. We’ll take Norberta from
‘ere. Heddlebun?”
But Heddlebun, James noticed, was already about her work. The
tiny elf had ducked under the derelict lorry and was now whispering to
Norberta, who lowered her huge serpentine neck to listen. The dragon’s
breath, which had been short and chuffing with anxiety only moments
before, now came in slower, longer gusts, with less reek of brimstone.
James couldn’t make out Heddlebun’s words. He couldn’t even tell if she
was speaking a language he understood. But Norberta comprehended well
enough, and that was all that mattered. A coil of tension unwound from
James’ shoulders, and only in its absence did he realize just how worried he
had been about the prospect of leading Norberta back to the ship.
The ground shook as Prechka lowered to one knee behind the lorry.
Impatiently, she pushed it like a toy, making room for her bulk. The lorry
rocked as it slid on its blocks, scraping and crunching along the concrete
floor. Zane had to leap backward as it reared precipitously near him.
“Prechka afraid,” the giantess said, and the low throb of her voice
caused more windows to rattle and shatter around the dark warehouse. She
put out her hand and Hagrid reached up to take it. His fist was just big
enough to grip the end of her grubby index finger, and yet he held it as if
she was a child, and then kissed the back of one huge knuckle.
“Yeh can follow the same path back home that you took here, can’t
yeh?” Hagrid asked, looking up at her shadowy bulk.
James knew that giants had a special sense that allowed them to

retrace their steps perfectly. And yet Prechka looked troubled.
Carefully, Grawp said, “We come back to old cave home now. We
live by brother Hagrid at Hogwarts.”
James glanced back at Hagrid in time to see the colour fade from his
cheeks.
“Now we talked about this, Grawpie. Yeh can’t come t’ Hogwarts.
It’s not allowed, remember? Why, they’ve made me send away even my
last few Skrewts. What would headmaster Merlin say if he learnt yeh two
was back livin’ in the Forbidden Forest?”
“Grawp and Prechka be quiet,” Prechka said, raising her index
finger to her lips in a gesture of solemn secrecy. The timbre of her voice
could be felt through the soles of James’ shoes. “Headmaster never know.”
Hagrid was shaking his head sadly. “I’d love nothin’ more, loves.
But we just can’t do it. Yeh have t’ go back to the mountains. Yer tribe
needs yeh. And yeh need them. It’ll be all right. Maybe, when all o’ this
Vow of Secrecy bizness is cleared up, why I can make arrangements for yeh
to comes an’ visit then. How would that be, eh?” He gave the giants an
attempt at a grin.
Grawp and Prechka looked at each other and seemed to commune
for a long moment with their eyes. Finally, Grawp looked down again and
said, “OK, brother Hagrid.”
Hagrid sniffed, and nodded, and collected himself. “That’s good,
then.” Perking up a little, he said, “So, yeh both remember how to summon
the hidin’ charm I sent yeh, right? Do yeh still ‘ave it with yeh?”
Grawp reached up and rummaged in the thick burlap of his collar,
retrieving something hung about his neck on a hank of rope. James was
surprised to see that it was an old automobile tyre, threaded right through
the centre like a ring. “We hide when hear people,” Grawp said. “Like
this.” He squeezed the tyre between his thumb and forefinger and muttered,
“Obscuro.”
Nothing happened. Both giants remained exactly where they were.
And yet, somehow, James’ eye refused to see them. Where Grawp
hunkered, James instead seemed to sense a huge grey trash bin half-buried
in plastic bags of rubbish. Where Prechka knelt, he perceived a rusting
water tower on thick iron supports.
“That’s a camouflage talisman!” Zane exclaimed. “Maybe the best
I’ve ever seen!”

“Hagrid,” Rose said, clearly impressed. “Did you do that?”
“Now don’t go acting all surprised, yeh lot,” Hagrid answered,
stifling a smile of sad pride. “Jus’ cause I teach Care o’ Magical Creatures
doesn’t mean I fergot how to use a wand. It’s just a little somethin’ I
whipped up fer their journey here and back. Couldn’t expect ‘em to travel
without any kind o’ magical help, could I?” He glanced tentatively at Rose
and added, “Do yeh really think it’s a good one?”
“It’s excellent, Hagrid,” she nodded, still squinting at the disguised
giants, trying to see them.
“Whoa!” Ralph said, backing away. “I think they’re moving, but I
can’t really tell!”
James glanced up and was alarmed to see what appeared to be the
trash bin tilting up onto its end as its rubbish bags rolled and clustered all
around it, forming and re-forming into new piles. The water tower leaned
on its iron supports, which creaked and moaned with the sound of
wrenching metal.
“Give ‘er another squeeze, Grawpie,” Hagrid called up, cupping his
hands to his mouth. “I could only pump so much magic into that tyre. Save
it for when yeh need it, why don’t yeh?”
A moment later, the disguises blinked away and James could once
again recognize the monstrous shapes standing in the dusty gloom. Hagrid
nodded in relief.
Ralph announced, “We should be off, then, right?”
“Before I freeze my tuchus off,” Zane agreed. “Not that this hasn’t
been a great time. Seriously. Let’s do it again next week.”
Hagrid called to Heddlebun, “Is Norberta ready to go, then?”
Heddlebun paused and raised her head, her huge ears pricking up.
“We’re ready,” she said, her voice very tiny after the boom of the giants.
Hagrid said his goodbyes and allowed the giants to leave first. Their
hulking forms blocked out the blue night-glow as they lumbered through
the broken bay door. Within a minute, the sub-audible thump of their
footsteps blended into the constant thrum of distant traffic. They were
gone, wending their way carefully back into the outlying villages, and the
mountains beyond.
“They’ll be safe,” Hagrid whispered, staring hard at the empty bay
door. “Makin’ their way back home. They’ll be just fine, won’t they?”
James realized that Hagrid was trying to convince himself as much

as anyone else.
Rose put her hand on Hagrid’s shoulder where he hunkered in the
dark. “Of course they will. You equipped them. And they’re smart, in
their own way.”
For giants, James thought, but didn’t say. After all, Hagrid himself
was half-giant, and he had conjured one of the best camouflage talismans
James had ever seen.
Hagrid nodded decisively. “Right then,” he whispered, and tossed a
glance back toward Heddlebun and the coiled shape of Norberta. “Let’s be
away, then.”
Herding James, Rose, Ralph, and Zane ahead of him, the half-giant
led Norberta out through the open bay door and down the broken asphalt of
the drive. Snow filled the air in a million fluffy flecks, sketching the shape
of the wind as it surrounded the warehouse, scoured the pier, and escaped
over the wasteland of the frozen Thames.
James glanced back, curious, and saw Heddlebun riding atop
Norberta’s head, bent low to her ear, whispering incessantly. With one
hand, she patted the great dragon on the bunched muscles of her jaw.
Norberta followed Hagrid as if in a trance, her head low and sweeping over
the pier, her feet lifting and falling like a cat stalking through a garden,
making no noise whatsoever.
Silently, the troupe threaded past the ice-locked barges and down to
the frozen surface of the Thames. The Gertrude was barely a low, sleek
shape amidst a panorama of drifting grey. Beyond this, London itself was
merely a dull throb and a watercolor fog of lights.
“Easy now,” Hagrid muttered nervously as Norberta settled her
weight onto the frozen river. The ice groaned precipitously but held firm, at
least for the moment. In a ragged line, with Ralph in the lead and Norberta
following behind, the group began to trek toward the black hole in the ice
where the Gertrude rocked, waiting.
Shivering but still chipper despite his hushed voice, Zane asked
James, “So where’d you guys find the dragon-whisperer?”
“Heddlebun?” James shook his head. “She was a house elf in Millie
Vandergriff’s house. Got sacked just this past holiday after spending her
whole life there. Somehow Hagrid got hold of her when he found out she’d
lost her service and knew how to keep beasts calm. Pretty lucky, I guess.”
“She got sacked?” Zane frowned, “I thought that hardly ever

happened? What for?”
James sighed. Ahead of them, the Gertrude unsheathed slowly from
the fog. The folding gangplank stretched out to the ice, tilting and creaking
with the movement of the ship. “She was mad and desperate about losing
her work to a load of Muggle servants. She tried to sabotage them into
getting sacked, but got herself caught and sacked instead. It was me that
caught her, in fact. I was there for the holidays with Millie.”
Zane turned to glance at James, his brow lowering. “And you all
trust her?” he asked, his voice suddenly incredulous.
James opened his mouth to reply, but a sudden commotion from
behind startled both boys.
“Whoa!” Hagrid bellowed suddenly, “Norberta! WHOA!”
With a sound both low and terribly huge, the ice cracked beneath
James’ feet, as if something very heavy had just pressed hard down on it.
He felt the motion as the frozen expanse pitched, throwing him off balance.
Zane grabbed his arm, keeping him upright, but just barely. Something
buffeted overhead and the sky was momentarily blotted by a huge black
silhouette.
Dark wings whumped through the air, and suddenly,
deafeningly, a roar broke over the ice. It was deep, long, and ululating,
seeming to make the very snowflakes shiver in their course. This, James
immediately knew, was no restrained bark of nervous energy. This was a
full-on roar of hectic release.
Norberta couldn’t properly fly, James remembered, only glide short
distances due to an old wing injury. She swooped over him and closed on
Ralph, her shadow covering him as she lowered, scrabbling at the air, her
claws swinging down toward the cracked ice.
“Ralph!” Zane cried, but the boy had already turned around. His
eyes bulged in terror as the great beast bore down on him. Instinctively, he
threw himself flat just as the dragon crunched down, rebounding from the
ice with all four powerful legs, and lunging back into the air again even as
the frozen river shattered beneath her weight. Ralph scrambled to hold on,
now captive on a heaving chunk of loose ice.
Hagrid ran past on James’ right, still bellowing, leaping clumsily
over widening cracks. Rose was close behind, running more nimbly, even
as her boots slipped and scraped.
Norberta pumped her wings, lofted through the air, and kicked off
again, this time from the deck of the Gertude, tearing up planks and rigging

with her claws. One wing walloped the air, the other, slightly out of synch,
limped faintly, tugging her off course. Her swooping form was wreathed in
swirls of snow, and James could just make out the shape of Heddlebun as
she leapt from the dragon’s head, grabbed onto the rear mast of the Getrude,
and swung up to perch on the furled sail.
“Elf work is for elves!” she called, her voice suddenly firm, as high
and ringing as a trumpet. “Spread the word! This is just the beginning! Elf
work is for elves, or the Muggle world will pay!”
James slid and stumbled to a halt as the shattered ice broke up
before him. Norberta roared again, and the echo of it pealed over the
Thames like thunder. With a wrench and screech of metal, she landed on
the unmistakable shape of a Tower Bridge, clawed up to the top of its south
stone tower, and coiled there, her tail whipping about her flanks, her wings
raised and flexing for balance. She raised her neck, hinged open her jaw,
and sent a gout of flame high into the snowy clouds. Yellow light filled the
world like a beacon, illuminating every falling snowflake, glinting from
bridge’s suspended walkways. On the roadway below, cars squealed and
tyres screeched. The noise of crashing metal and terrified screams was
unmistakable even through the dark distance.
Then, with a sinewy lunge, Norberta launched again. Her wings
caught the air, whumped down, and she swooped into a long, low arc,
descending into the foggy glow of the city, where she was met with distant
blares of horns and crumps of colliding metal.
James could barely believe what he was seeing. Zane scraped to a
halt next to him, weighing down the giant chunk of ice they floated on and
grabbing James’ shoulder for support.
“NORBERTA!!” Hagrid bellowed, standing in silhouette on a
heaving floe ahead, his legs splayed. Next to him, Rose clutched onto his
coat for dear life. “NORBERTA! COME BACK!”
James turned, realizing that the force of the river had already carried
them some distance away from the Gertrude. Frantically, he scanned the
rigging and masts, looking, but there was no longer anything to see.
“She’s escaped,” Zane gasped hopelessly, still clinging to James for
support. “We’ll never see that little traitor again.”
A heavy shape slid up against James’ legs as the ice bobbed,
allowing black water to bubble up over its edge. He buckled and fell
backwards onto the object, which let out a hoarse “Oof!”

It was Ralph.
“I really do get tired,” he wheezed, rolling onto his back on the ice
and throwing James off of him, “of being right… about these things.”

18. A BRIEF REPRIEVE
It was almost dawn by the time James and Rose made their way
back to the portrait hole, feeling as if they’d been away for weeks rather
than hours.
“My, just look at the two of you,” the Fat Lady said disapprovingly,
raising the topmost of her many chins. “You both look a fright. And what
brings you back at such an ungodly hour?”
“Venomous Tentacula,” Rose growled the password as if it was a
curse.
“Well!” the Fat Lady huffed, gathering her stole tighter about her
shoulders indignantly. With a creak, her frame swung open, revealing the
deep shadows and cold hearth of the common room.
Without a word, the two separated and climbed their respective
dormitory stairs.
James didn’t know about Rose, but despite the numbing exhaustion
of his body, he felt as wide awake as he’d ever been in his entire life.
Creeping up the winding stairs to the somnolent dimness of the dormitory,
he was relieved to see even Scorpius asleep in his stolen place among the
seventh years.

Unable to muster the energy even to peel off his damp clothes,
James lowered himself to his bed fully dressed, collapsed upon it, and lay
there staring up toward the nearby window. The snow had stopped and the
moon was up, glaring back with its own glowing eye, illuminating the
window’s frosted edges like neon.
James’ every thought was consumed with the grave consequences of
what they had inadvertently caused that night. The journey home had been
difficult and arduous, with hours spent on the broken ice of the Thames
shoring up the Gertrude enough to brave the attempt, all while Zane cast
visum-ineptio charms over the ship to make it look like a mere tugboat to
anyone who might come to investigate the fracas nearby.
But now that it was over, the return trip ceased to matter completely.
They had set a dragon loose in Muggle London.
The very thought seemed preposterous. Laughable, even. And yet
he could all too easily recall the crash of colliding cars and the screams of
witnesses as Norberta clawed to the top of Tower Bridge, coiling atop its
famed silhouette like a living gargoyle.
Hundreds of people had to have seen it, despite the hour. And even
now, the fully-grown Norwegian Ridgeback was surely rampaging through
the city, doing untold damage and spreading a wake of Muggle terror in
every direction.
Zane had been right. As they’d departed the hobbled Gertrude upon
finally returning to the Moonpool, he had pulled James, Rose, and Ralph
aside and gravely said, “This is worse than the Night of the Unveiling. You
know that, right?”
Hagrid had been utterly silent throughout the return journey, even as
they all bid their solemn goodnights. He was in a sort of shock, James
knew, caught between worrying about his poor, lost dragon, the knowledge
that he had caused possibly the greatest breach of the Vow of Secrecy in a
thousand years, and the reality that, by the following morning, he may well
be carted off to Azkaban to await trial for crimes too numerous to easily
count.
And yet James simply couldn’t comprehend the terrible scope of it
all. Whenever he tried to imagine what was to come, or what he should do
about it, his mind fetched up once again on that harrowing image of the
dragon atop Tower Bridge, her tail whipping her flanks, her wings spread
for balance, roaring a stream of liquid fire into the clouds.

He fell asleep without realizing it and woke up mere minutes later,
or so it felt. The daylight outside the window betrayed the truth, however.
It was the middle of Saturday afternoon.
James groaned and rolled over, clutching a hand over his eyes.
“Late night, sleepyhead?” A voice greeted him cheerfully. It was
Graham. “You’ll be in no shape for Quidditch tomorrow if you keep that
up. As your team captain, I feel it’s my duty to say I’m disappointed in
you.”
James groaned again, unable to formulate any meaningful response.
As he swung his feet to the floor, realizing that he was fully clothed in
grimy jeans, sweatshirt, and clammy socks, the memory of the previous
night fell back onto him like a millstone.
“Oh, bloody hell,” he muttered urgently to himself. “Graham, have
you seen a newspaper today?”
Graham had not. “Why? Did you have another interview with Rita
Skeeter?”
Breathlessly, James leapt out of bed, not even thinking to change out
of his grimy day-old clothes, and ran down the spiral stairs.
No one in the common room had seen that morning’s Daily Prophet
either. James pushed through the portrait hole and ran toward the staircase,
his feet clad only in socks, now loose and flopping damply from his toes.
He passed Peeves in the hall, and the poltergeist hurried to follow,
sensing potential trouble and eager to exploit it however he could.
“Get away!” James called back over his shoulder, panting. “This is
none of your business!”
“Things that aren’t my business are the best things of all!” the fat
little figure trilled, bouncing happily from the walls.
Rose was just coming out of the Great Hall as James blundered to
the bottom of the stairs with Peeves tittering close behind.
“Have you seen it? What’s the news?” James gasped, but Rose
hurried to him, already shushing him with a finger to her lips.
“Ooo!” Peeves squeaked with high anticipation. “This is going to
be good! I can just smell the beautiful stink of conspiracy about you both!”
“Away with you, Peeves!” Rose hissed, snapping her glare onto the
poltergeist. “This doesn’t concern you!”
“All the better!” Peeves squealed, turning loops in the air. “Trouble,
trouble for Peeves to double!”

Rose narrowed her eyes. When she spoke again, it was in a musing,
sing-song voice. “Did you hear what they’re making for dessert tonight,
James?”
Peeves halted in mid-air, his face suddenly suspicious.
“Sleeping Toad Tarts,” Rose whispered tantalizingly. “Mmmm…
miniature enchanted sugar toads twitching in Turkish Delight gelatin drops.
Very tricky to prepare. Requires complete silence in the kitchen, lest the
trays of sugar toads be woken before they’re properly embedded in the
gelatin. Can you just imagine? Hundreds of candy toads leaping pell-mell
about the kitchen with all the elves scrambling to catch them?”
James glanced up at Peeves and was surprised to see the poltergeist
wringing his hands frantically, his piggish face screwed up with strain, like
Ralph trying not to belch in class after chugging a licorice soda.
“It would be simply disastrous,” Rose went on, speaking in an awed
voice, “if anyone, say, invaded the kitchen and started banging pots and
pans while singing the Hogwarts Salute at the top of their lungs. It’s a good
thing I don’t know anyone who likes to do such things.”
“MmmmMMH!” Peeves groaned shrilly, nearly popping with
torment. He hovered a moment longer, his eyes going cross-eyed and his
cheeks bulging with concentration, and then let out a bawl of helpless glee
and swooped away, careening in the unmistakable direction of the kitchens,
already breaking into the first verse of the Hogwarts Tribute.
“Come with me,” Rose said, grabbing James by the elbow and
steering him away toward a side corridor. “The library. And not a word
before we get there.”
James allowed Rose to drag him onward, once again marveling at
her ability to manipulate lesser minds by giving them exactly what they
most want.
Five minutes later, at a table in the farthest back corner of the
library, with their backs to the wall and no one else in sight, James bent
over Rose’s edition of that morning’s Daily Prophet.
The news story was surprisingly small, halfway down the second
page. Not buried, exactly, but clearly not the screaming headline that they
had expected.
MUGGLE DRAGON SIGHTINGS IN CENTRAL

LONDON CAUSE FOR INVESTIGATION
Ministry of Magic officials responded early this
morning to persistent reports that a dragon had been
sighted atop London’s Tower Bridge and in nearby
environs. Initially dismissed as mass hysteria induced
by the numerous unrelated breaches of magical
unplottability in Muggle spaces, eyewitness testimonies
led Ministry investigators to believe that some incursion
of a magical beast may indeed have occurred.
“A dragon is exceedingly unlikely,” explains
Harry Potter, head Auror and lead responder to the
scene. “But Muggle witnesses indicate that some
fantastical beast or magical entity may well have
temporarily escaped secure wizarding boundaries.
Most likely the creature is simply a rogue boggart
unwittingly set loose in the Muggle streets. We shall
catch up to it forthwith, I am certain.”
According to official reports, the appearance of
the creature occurred between 1:25 and 1:40 in the
morning, where the beast was first observed over Tower
Bridge, then soaring over Potters Field Park and
vanishing into nearby Shard rail-yard.
Ministry
oblivators, now working round the clock, were
dispatched to the district to alter the memories of nearly
three hundred Muggle witnesses.
Damage from
multiple vehicle accidents was also magically repaired.
Ministry officials caution, however, that with sightings
of this magnitude, some residual memory and physical
evidence is bound to remain.
Wolfram Tryce, Lead Obliviator, warns, “We
are reduced to short-term memory extraction rather than
full experiential replacement. All it will take is for two
or three of the witnesses to encounter each other in their
daily lives for their shared memories to resurface.”
As Daily Prophet readers are bound to know,
the popular Hokus Brothers Circus, currently

performing in wizarding London’s Diagon Alley,
feature a Hebridean Black dragon that performs under
the stage name of Montague Python. Circus owner and
ringmaster Archibald Hokus assured this reporter
personally that their dragon was present and accounted
for throughout the entire night.
“Montague’s a registered beast, never out of
our sight, and tame as a lamb, despite his fearsome size
and reputation,” Hokus explained via floo early this
morning. “And for good reason! Trained dragons are
right dear, in every sense of the word. I don’t expect
there’s another like him in the entire world, much as we
might wish there was. And Monty’s been with us for so
long now that he’s like a member of my own family.”
When pressed for whether the Ministry of
Magic has been in contact with Hokus Brothers Circus
to confirm the whereabouts of their dragon during last
night’s sightings, Mr. Hokus assured that he is
“cooperating in every possible way with the
authorities.”
Curtailing suspicions in the non-magical
community, the official explanation planted in Muggle
news outlets for the sightings involves a runaway
weather balloon and swamp gas build-up under the ice
of the frozen Thames. “Oldies are still goodies,” Mr.
Tryce explained—somewhat wearily, in this reporter’s
tenured estimation.
“Well,” James sighed, overcome with tentative relief, “that’s a
stroke of luck, isn’t it?” He pushed the newspaper back toward Rose, who
collected and folded it again, looking nowhere near as relieved as James
himself.
“Something’s fishy about the whole story,” she said in a harsh
whisper, “Norberta is still loose in London, but nobody else has seen her
since the middle of last night. How likely is that?”
“Maybe she got scared and found a hiding place,” James shrugged
uncertainly.

“That’s possible, actually,” Rose admitted, “Norwegian Ridgebacks,
when confronted with the unknown, will usually find a familiar-looking
hovel to retreat to, waiting out danger or confusion. The poor thing’s
probably terrified.”
“Now you’re sounding like Hagrid,” James observed, surprised.
“Just because she may still get us all in the worst trouble of our
lives,” Rose sniffed, sagging low in her chair, “doesn’t mean I’m heartless.
Norberta didn’t ask for any of this. She’s just responding to instinct.”
“It’s Heddlebun who’s to blame,” another voice said, strained to a
dense whisper. It was Ralph, sliding into a chair across the table, his eyes
wide and serious. “I told you this whole affair was a disaster just waiting to
happen!”
“I think it was me what told you all that Heddlebun couldn’t be
trusted,” James said, shaking his head. “For whatever good that did.”
Rose adopted her most beatific expression and said, “It’s no use
laying blame now. What’s done is done. Now we have to figure out what
to do about it.”
“Easy for you to say,” Ralph said, his voice still strained with
anxiety. “You’re the one that said nothing would go wrong if we got
involved.”
“I never said nothing would go wrong,” Rose commented primly. “I
said we wouldn’t get caught.”
“S’not how I remember it,” Ralph groused, folding his arms.
“So,” James said, trying to bring the topic back on point. “If
Norberta’s hiding away someplace, like Rose says, what exactly is the
problem?” Unwilling to abandon his newfound relief, he tapped the
newspaper and added, “Out of sight, out of mind, right?”
Rose turned her impatient glare back on him and rasped, “That was
your dad they quoted in the article, if you hadn’t noticed. He’s no Ministry
pencil pusher. That would be my dad,” she admitted with another weak
slump in her chair, before rallying slightly, “but even he wouldn’t buy this
line of tripe about a ‘rogue Boggart’. That’s pure rubbish meant to console
stupid people. Nothing more.”
James rolled his eyes in exasperation. “We get a huge break on
what could be the worst news in centuries, and you’re complaining about
it! We’re off the hook, don’t you see? What’s the problem, Rose?”
“The problem is this isn’t over,” Rose insisted in a firm whisper. “It

can’t be! Norberta is still out there. And no matter what your dad says to
the ‘tenured reporter’ at the Daily Prophet, he knows something’s up.”
“I’m with Rose,” Ralph nodded. “Only, not. Because I happen to
think the best thing for us to do right now is go to Merlin and tell him the
whole bleedin’ thing.”
“It’s fine,” James soothed, glancing back and forth between Ralph
and Rose. He gestured at the newspaper again and asked, “Did either of
you show Hagrid?”
Rose shook her head and blew out a sigh. “I expect he knows about
it already. The poor old bloke was worried sick last night. He would have
gotten a newspaper first thing, just to know the extent of the damage. But
mark my words. This isn’t over. We set a dragon loose in London! It may
be all clear for the moment, what with the Obliviators done with their work
and the wrecks all mended. But Norberta’s still out there. We’re going to
have to do something about that!”
“And I’m telling you, Rose,” James said, leaning forward and
stabbing a finger down onto the folded newspaper. “It’s not our problem
anymore! Norberta’s in hiding, and the Ministry is explaining it away with
Boggarts and weather balloons and swamp gas. We should be counting our
lucky stars for the breaks we got here, not looking for more dark omens to
fret about!” he flopped back in his chair again and crossed his arms over his
chest before commenting in a different voice, “Zane sure was a dab hand at
those visum-ineptio charms though last night, wasn’t he?”
“Well, it’s hard to tell, isn’t it,” Rose sighed, collecting the
newspaper and pushing it back into her bag. “Those only work on people
who don’t know what they’re really looking at.”
“But you were impressed,” Ralph agreed, tilting his head. “I could
tell. Admit it: you’re glad he came.”
Rose’s face flushed. It was a subtle thing, but James had known his
cousin since she was a baby, and recognized it. She zipped her bag and
avoided looking at him. “He’s an irreverent, juvenile, reckless, manically
cheerful, dodgy, American rogue.”
James nodded. “And you like him for exactly everything that he
annoys you for.”
He expected her to be angry, but she simply slumped over the table,
chin on her crossed arms, and stared out over the bookshelves. “He’s no
Scorpius, that’s for sure.”

“Ah,” James nodded, feeling rather bold. “Because he annoys you
for everything you used to like him for.”
“Oh, I still like him. I can’t help it,” Rose shook her head on her
arms, keeping her voice low. “But I hate myself for it. He keeps me in a
confused tizzy most of the time. Every time I think we’re all smoothed out,
he does something else infuriating. My school-work is suffering for it.”
Ralph glanced at her, frowning. “What are you talking about? You
get top marks in every class.”
“But I’m not enjoying it. It’s all become a… a drudgery.”
“Wow,” James gave a low whistle. “A world where schoolwork is a
drudgery. That’s more than I can imagine.”
“You’re some help,” Rose muttered disconsolately. “I don’t even
know why I’m saying this to you two.”
James was tempted to tell Rose that Scorpius was simply no good
for her, but he knew that it would be pointless. That was something she’d
have to learn on her own, when she realized for herself that the sum total of
their relationship was annoyance, heartbreak, and petty squabbles.
Instead, he mused, “‘Rose Malfoy’ sounds like a shade of sickening
pink. Like that terrible stomach potion Grandma Weasley brews up
whenever we get the flu.”
“Oh, thanks for that,” Rose sat up again and collected her bag.
“That clears up everything.” She made to leave, then turned back to him
and Ralph. “But seriously. This Norberta business isn’t over. We’ve made
a mess, and something’s going to have to be done about it before it all
comes crashing down on our heads.”
Without waiting for a response, she turned and walked away. James
watched her go, arms still crossed over his chest, and then blew out a weary
sigh.
He firmly wanted to believe that Rose was over-reacting and that
Norberta was no longer their problem. He was less convinced it was true,
however, than that Rose still harbored a secret, hopeless torch for Zane
Walker, even from inside the emotional cage of her relationship with
Scorpius.
Ralph was still looking back at Rose as she turned past a bookshelf
and out of sight. “I hate to say it, but she’s right about Norberta. And
you’re right about her and Scorpius Malfoy. What a right wazzock he is.”
James sighed and stood up, finally deciding, reluctantly, that he

should change out of last night’s grubby clothes. “This whole affair’s gone
totally quantum. Way over our tiny heads. See you later, Ralph.”
As he made his way back to the Gryffindor tower, he mused that,
much like Norberta loose in central London, Rose’s love life was just one
more thing that he, James, couldn’t do anything about.

As the weather is wont to do during those first ambiguous days of
early spring, Friday night’s snowstorm was followed by a wave of
unseasonable warmth on Sunday. The balmy air chased the snow into
sullen, crusted dregs in the castle’s shadows, revealing the matted yellow
grass beneath and summoning cascades of pallid icicles from the eaves and
turrets. The ground squelched beneath James’ trainers, soaking them
through, as he made his way to the Quidditch pitch for the evening’s match
against Ravenclaw.
He was eager to get back onto a broom again after the long break,
and was hoping to finally prove himself worthy of his position as Seeker.
Thus far in the season, Gryffindor was in third place, following Ravenclaw
and Slytherin. If they could snatch victory in today’s match-up, they would
climb to second with dreams of a possible tournament win. If they lost,
they could most likely kiss the trophy goodbye.
The grandstands were full to overflowing, noisome and drumming
with cheers and tramping feet, as James took his place on the field for the
pre-game captains’ handshake.
The match that followed was hard fought and mostly textbook. The
air was clear beneath a bright grey sky, allowing for perfect visibility and
offering almost no cross-breeze. James banked and swooped in search of
the Snitch, keeping one eye out for rogue Bludgers as well as George
Muldoon, who played Seeker for the Ravenclaws. As James swooped low
over the Ravenclaw stadium, with the sun setting just beyond the streaming
banners overhead, he spotted Edgar Edgecombe and his cronies, Ogden and

Heathrow, seated in the front row, calling jeers through cupped hands.
Dimly, James realized that he hadn’t thought of them in weeks, and was
very glad of it. Perhaps, he mused, he had heard the last of their petty,
pointless antagonism. Even as he swooped on, however, he expected this
was too much to hope for.
Gryffindor maintained a thin but persistent lead over Ravenclaw
throughout the match, but nowhere near enough to secure a victory. James
knew that the extra few points on the scoreboard would come to naught if
Muldoon spotted and snagged the Snitch before he did. Suspense tightened
in his chest like a noose as the sun dipped low over the grandstands and the
match grew tense, feverish with anticipation.
James had not seen the Snitch the entire match, and knew that it
simply must make an appearance sometime soon. He scanned the wild
fracas of players, watched the wallop of Bludgers and the lob of Quaffles
toward glinting rings. He heard Lily grunt with effort, managing to knock
back shot after shot. Gritting his teeth, he waited and searched, straining
his eyes so hard that they ached behind his glasses.
And then, with a glimmer of sunset gold and a streak of fluttering
wings, there it was: the Snitch bobbed behind Ashley Doone as she hovered
before the Ravenclaw goal rings. Then, it formed an arc of bronze as it
dipped, banked, and zipped across the pitch, heading straight toward him.
James watched it approach, his breath caught in his chest. Surely, it
wouldn’t be this easy. And of course, it wasn’t. The Snitch zigged in the
air, angling away into the setting sunlight, and James hunkered over his
broom, launching forward in pursuit.
From his peripheral vision, he tried to see if Muldoon was giving
chase as well, but the sunset light made it impossible to tell. Eyes locked
onto the fluttering golden ball, James twitched and banked through the
melee of players, ducking under Bludgers and doing a full barrel-roll
beneath Stebbins, Gryffindor’s lead Beater.
“Go James!” he heard Graham call, followed by a surprised whoop
from Deirdre as he blew past her. The crowd bellowed with a surge of
excitement, and James knew that Muldoon must have joined the chase now
as well. The match was likely only seconds from being over.
Suddenly, Ashley Doone was in front of James, careening straight
into his path as she abandoned her post at the goals, attempting to block his
course. He ticked his broom to the right and dipped his head, careening so

close beneath her broom that its tail bristles combed his hair. When he
glanced up again, Muldoon was swinging up alongside, his brow lowered,
his face set in a grim scowl.
But he was too late, and James knew it. He exulted in it. As
Mudoon struggled to catch up, James stretched out his hand, saw his
shadow flicker over the swooping shape of the Snitch, and caught it.
It was like catching an apple out of a tree in Grandma Weasley’s
orchard; just as natural and easy as snatching a dinner roll from a plate. He
blinked at his own fist and the golden wings that fluttered against his palm.
As he looked, the wings stilled. The match was over.
Amazed and grinning with delight, he glanced aside at Muldoon,
who tugged his broom to a disgusted halt and dropped his chin to his chest,
his sweaty hair falling over his face.
The grandstands erupted into deafening applause.
“And thanks to some solid flying and the eagle-eye of James
Potter,” Josephina Bartlett cried from the announcer’s booth, “Gryffindor
plucks a second-place standing from the grasp of tonight’s rival,
Ravenclaw!”
Firework charms popped and sizzled all around as the rest of the
team piled around James, hooting with delight and boosting him up
between them.
Lily threw an arm around James’ shoulders in mid-air, and James
decided, then and there, that he could forgive her for blaming him for their
earlier loss against Slytherin. Apparently, sport could be both the greatest
divider and the strongest unifier. None of it may be especially important in
the long run, but for the moment it felt like the only thing that mattered in
the whole world.
Until, moments later, as James was descending to the pitch, circling
like a dandelion seed with the rest of team Gryffindor still hollering and
congratulating each other all around him.
Seated in the second row of the Gryffindor grandstand was James’
father, the unmistakable and legendary Harry Potter. He was smiling with
pride, but not cheering. On his right was James’ Uncle, Ron Weasley. And
next to him, resplendent in her scarlet and gold scarf and bushy brown hair,
was his Aunt Hermione. They were all three watching him, smiling tightly,
and yet there was something in their eyes that said that they had not, in fact,
come to Hogwarts, strictly speaking, for the evening’s Quidditch match.

Rose was waiting next to the grandstand as James touched down and
collected his broom.
“You saw?” she said, reading the sudden ashen look on his face.
He nodded. “Have you talked to them already? What are they here
for?”
“Let’s just say,” Rose said, pitching her voice low and offering him
a meaningful look, “that none of them really think it was a boggart that
showed up in London the other night.”

The plan, according to Rose, was to meet up in Hagrid’s hut at
nightfall. She hurried back to the castle in order to Duck the message to
Ralph while James retreated to the locker area and changed out of his
Quidditch gear. He could barely bring himself to wait until that night to
know what the meeting with his dad, aunt, and uncle was about. Worry and
alarm fanned out in his veins like cold acid, infusing him with low dread,
but there was nothing he could do about it. In the wake of the Quidditch
match, the three grown-ups were scheduled for a private dinner with
Headmaster Merlin and several teachers, ostensibly to discuss the continued
disintegration of the Vow of Secrecy and theories about how to shore it up
in the short term. James had the distinct idea that this was only a ruse
meant to throw off suspicion. The real reason for their visit would be
illuminated later that night in Hagrid’s hut, for a much more select group.
He showered, hurried to dinner, and couldn’t bring himself to eat.
His stomach was in knots at the thought of what might be to come. What
did his dad know about the Norberta debacle? Was Hagrid going to be sent
to Azkaban? Had the Daily Prophet been fed a deliberately sanitized
version of the story? Perhaps Norberta was even now continuing to tear a
ravenous swathe of destruction across London! But how could such a thing
possibly be kept quiet?
Finally, desperately, he confided his worries to Rose as they left the

Great Hall.
“That’s idiotic,” she said with a patronizing sniff. “But I’m glad
you’re at least taking the thing seriously now.”
“I’ve always taken it seriously!” James exclaimed, albeit in a low
rasp, “I just hoped that the problem had gone away by itself. Can’t blame
me for being optimistic, can you?”
“There’s optimistic and there’s irresponsible,” Rose said with a
shake of her head.
As they neared the stairs, Ralph huffed toward them, his Head Boy
badge glinting in the evening light. “What’s this all about, your parents
coming here and arranging some secret meeting at Hagrid’s?” he panted.
“Are we doomed? We’re completely doomed, aren’t we?”
“Cool your cauldron,” Rose said, “If it was as bad as that they
would have carted us all off the moment they got here, not waited to meet
all quiet-like under cover of darkness.”
“I told you it was a massive mistake,” Ralph grumped, leaning
against the balustrade to catch his breath. “No more of this! We tell them
everything. Agreed?”
“Maybe,” Rose hedged, raising a placating hand.
“And Merlin, too,” Ralph insisted. “And not just about this whole
dragon affair. About everything. Petra, Odin-Vann, the Crimson Thread,
the whole thing.”
“Whoa, whoa, whoa!” James hissed, tugging Ralph, with
considerable effort, into a dark corner beneath the stairs. “Not a chance!
Are you completely mental?”
“I’m the sanest one of all of us,” Ralph protested, keeping his own
voice low but clearly resenting it. “We’ve made the mistake before of not
trusting Merlin and our parents! But this is too big for us to make that same
mistake again!”
James opened his mouth to object, but Rose spoke before he could.
“Merlin and our parents are sworn to capture Petra by any means necessary,
not to help her. You know that, Ralph. You saw what happened when
Merlin and Petra clashed in the World Between the Worlds.”
Ralph ran a hand through his hair in frustration. “Has it occurred to
you two that maybe they’re right to try to stop her?” He glared at them
each in turn, and then shook his head, overruling their objections. “Look, I
trust Petra as much as I trust either of you. I believe she thinks this is the

only plan that will work. But just because Petra has awesome powers
doesn’t mean she’s always right. And don’t even get me started about
Odin-Vann. He’s as dodgy as a rubber galleon. I trust Merlin and our
parents ten times more than I trust that skinny prat. We need their help, and
you know it.”
Rose merely gave a hard sigh and turned to look at James. Clearly,
she had been struggling with this very dilemma.
And it was only in that moment that James finally understood his
biggest reason for keeping Petra’s plan a secret. The weight of the
realization chilled him all the way to his heels. Rose saw it on his face, as
did Ralph, who blanched a little himself.
“What is it?” he asked, dropping his voice to a whisper. “What do
you know?”
James shook his head slowly. “It’s not what I know,” he breathed,
leaning against the wall and sliding down into a weak crouch. “It’s what
I’m afraid could happen. What will happen, if we tell Merlin and our
parents.”
Ralph hunkered down as well. Rose knelt and smoothed her skirt
over her knees. “They’ll try to reason with her, won’t they?” she said
reasonably. “If they can get her to listen, they’ll try to talk her out of her
plan.”
James shook his head again. “But they won’t succeed. Petra is
completely committed. She’s made a Horcrux just to assure she can carry
out her plan. No way that Merlin and our parents will be able to talk her
out of it. That means they won’t have any choice but to try to stop her
however they can.”
Rose’s face paled now as she nodded, beginning to understand.
“And if they oppose her by force…”
Ralph’s shoulders slumped. “People will end up getting hurt.
Maybe even killed.”
“But not Petra,” James whispered. “That’s the whole point of the
Horcrux. They may resort to trying to cut her down, but it won’t work.
And then…”
“She will attack them,” Rose said in a small voice. “Petra will kill
anyone who stands in her way.”
James felt cold to the bone as he nodded. “She’ll do it because she
thinks it’s the only way to save the entire world. She’ll hate it. But she will

do it. Because she believes she is strong enough to make the hardest choice
of all.”
Rose added, “And because her soul is already stained with one
death.”
Ralph stared down at the floor between them, apparently thinking
hard, mulling over the cold truth of their words. “So,” he muttered, “if we
tell Merlin or our parents, they may end up dead. And it would be partly
our fault, because we set them up to oppose someone they can’t possibly
defeat.”
None of them responded. After a long moment, Ralph raised his
head again.
“Not even Merlin?”
James looked at Rose, then Ralph. “Merlin would be our best hope.
But remember what happened when he confronted Petra at the parade in
New York, on the Night of the Unveiling. He tried to stop her. He used his
staff on her. And it didn’t even stun her. He was nothing to her.”
Ralph frowned, still struggling with the idea. “But the city is her
element! It’s the source of her power! Sure, she was more powerful than
him there. But maybe next time…”
With a deep sigh, Rose said, “If there’s a next time, Petra will make
sure the odds are stacked in her favor again, just like they were in New
York. She knows Merlin’s weakness. She won’t let him have any
advantage over her. She will defeat him. And when she does, he won’t
ever come back.”
Ralph simply scowled and stared at the floor again. He didn’t like
it. James could see that. But neither could he argue with it.
Without a word, the three went their separate ways. They didn’t see
each other again until nearly nine o’clock, as they congregated in the
entrance hall and slipped out into the cold of the night.
Hagrid’s hut glowed with yellow light. A ribbon of grey smoke
issued from its stone chimney, just like always, and yet James had never felt
less welcomed by the familiar hut than he did now. He was mad with
suspense about what was to come, but also trembling with trepidation that
he might be about to get into the worst trouble of his life.
A noise suddenly wafted across the blue evening glow of the lawns,
stopping James, Rose, and Ralph in their tracks. It was faint but
unmistakable, and it was the last sound they expected to hear coming from

the depths of the hut.
It was laughter. Several voices, all different timbres, were laughing
in unison, forming a melody like an old song, long forgotten.
James glanced aside in alarm and met Rose’s puzzled gaze. Ralph
gulped audibly.
“Is that a good sign,” he whispered, “or a bad sign?”
Rose shrugged uncertainly, and then, more slowly, resumed her
short trek across the lawn. James and Ralph followed tentatively.
The laughter came again, growing louder as the three approached
the hut. Rose raised her small fist and knocked once, softly, almost as if she
hoped not to be heard. The hut went immediately silent. Several seconds
later, the door budged open and the shaggy bulk of Hagrid’s head peered
out. His dark eyes flicked over the three students, then he nodded and
stepped back, tugging the door open with him.
James followed Rose and Ralph inside and glanced around.
Seated around the huge table, their faces illuminated in the glow of a
single lantern, with the dishes of a late tea scattered between them, were
Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and his wife Hermione. They were dressed in
dark jeans and heavy sweaters, their faces merry but quiet as they looked up
at the newcomers, as if reluctantly prepared to get down to the business of
the night.
Hagrid shut the hut door with a clunk and gestured toward the table.
“We was just discussin’ old times,” he acknowledged. “Lot o’ memories
with these three. Not all of ‘em good, but definitely more of ‘em than not.”
Hermione nodded and pointed to a small chair beneath the window.
“I remember you sitting right there, Ron,” she commented, “vomiting slugs
for a good quarter hour. Is that one of the good memories or the bad ones?”
James’ father tried not to grin. Ron rolled his eyes and shook his
head. “You’re a laugh riot, Mrs. Weasley. If you recall, that was a result of
me trying to defend your prodigious honour.”
“And failing admirably,” Harry agreed. “But it’s definitely the
thought that counts.”
Hermione put an arm around her husband and dipped her head to his
shoulder. “I do remember,” she said warmly, “And I’ll never forget it.”
“Nice catch out there today, James,” Ron nodded, turning to James
with a crooked smile.
James moved into the light of the table, looking from face to face

for some sign of what was going on. His father saw the question on his face
and gave a brief nod.
“We know about Norberta,” he admitted. “And before you give
Hagrid any grief, no, it isn’t because he told us.”
Hagrid raised both of his slab-like hands as he settled back into his
chair. “Didn’t utter nary a word. Not this time.”
Rose narrowed her eyes, moving to budge onto the chair next to her
mother, who shifted to allow room. “So, how do you know, then?” she
asked, looking cagily around the table. “And, er, what do you know?”
Her father spoke up then, raising a hand to tick off points on his
fingers. “We know about the plan to steal off to London to facilitate
transport of a certain unregistered Norwegian Ridgeback whose living
arrangement with the giants had become tenuous, at best. We know that the
plan, such as it was, went terribly awry, leading to said dragon’s escape into
the city proper, causing hundreds of poor Muggle Londoners to soil their
britches in mortal terror.”
“Ronald,” Hermione clucked her tongue in disdain.
“And,” Ron went on, not missing a beat, “we know that, fortunately
for everyone involved, said dragon—a certain female named, through no
fault of her own, Norberta—quickly went to ground, hiding herself away
somewhere within the confines of the city proper, and is apparently still
there, scared and waiting until such time as she is discovered, or becomes
hungry enough to have to go hunting for food.”
James sagged into the last empty seat at the table, weak with a
mixture of relief and embarrassment. To his father, he asked, “How did you
work all of this out?”
“Simple,” Harry said, taking off his glasses and wiping them on his
sleeve. “It’s my job to work things out.”
“We looked up the records of every registered dragon in a hundred
mile radius,” Hermione explained. “It’s not exactly a long list. We checked
out each one and determined they’d all been accounted for on the night in
question. And since native Welsh Greens all stay far away from the cities
by nature, that left only one option.”
Ron nodded. “A certain Norwegian Ridgeback that only a few
people know about, and that we three are nominally responsible for.”
“We four,” Harry corrected, tossing a sidelong glance at Hagrid.
“Not to mention,” Ron added, “That several of the Muggle

witnesses that night reported seeing a ship broken through the ice of the
Thames. Some said it was a long old ship with masts and a great
paddlewheel. Others said it was a regular old tugboat. Same place, same
time.”
Hermione went on, “So we made some quick deductions, and then
came straight here to ask Hagrid what, precisely, he was up to, and who else
had come along for the ride.” At this, she turned to her daughter with a
pointed look.
“What were we supposed to do?” Rose said shrilly. “Let poor old
Hagrid go off and try to rescue Norberta by himself in that floating bucket
of his? He would have, you know! We had an obligation to help, all three
of us. It wasn’t my fault that Zane Walker ended up coming along for the
ride! I wanted to send him back to Alma Aleron the moment Ralph Ducked
him here!”
James saw what was happening an instant before his Aunt Hermione
raised her eyebrows and turned to look back at her husband, a sly, knowing
expression on her face.
“Nary a word,” Hagrid repeated emphatically. “It wasn’t me this
time.”
Ralph smacked a hand to his forehead.
Rose looked from her mother to her father, then across the table to
her uncle, who dipped his eyes to the tabletop and fingered his empty
teacup.
Rose said, “You didn’t know any of that… did you?”
“It’s the oldest trick in the Auror book,” James sighed, flopping
back in his chair. “Convince them you already know everything, and then
just sit back and listen. He’s been doing it to Albus, Lil, and I for years.”
“But…!” Rose fumed, her cheeks going deep crimson. “But you
said…!” She glared at her uncle accusingly.
Harry said, “It’s like I told you: it’s my job to work things out. You
were very helpful, Rose. Thank you.”
Hermione turned to Hagrid. “How could you let them come?” she
asked reproachfully. “That was extremely dangerous.”
“No more than anything we did in our day,” Ron said softly, “and
for the exact same dragon.”
“That’s what I told them!” Rose spluttered. “We were just finishing
what you started!”

Hermione gave her daughter a stern look. “Except that we
succeeded. You lot set a dragon loose in London.”
“Oh, don’t blame them,” Hagrid moaned, shaking his great head
mournfully. “It’s all my fault. I never should o’ let ‘em come along. Never
should ‘ave involved ‘em at all. I was just so worried about Norberta. I
wasn’t thinkin’ straight.”
Harry reached around James’ shoulders and touched Hagrid’s arm.
“There’s no blame to be had. I know how persistent these three can be.
Mainly because I remember how persistent us three used to be. There’s
nothing to be gained by pointing fingers now.”
Ralph, still standing behind Hagrid’s chair, piped up, “Especially
since I tried to warn them over and over that the whole plan was a
nightmare from the start!”
Hermione nodded with feeling. “Just like I tried to warn these two
back when we were still students and Norberta was just a hatchling.
Somebody needs to be the voice of reason.”
“Thank you!” Ralph nodded, holding out his hands in a helpless
gesture. “It’s a thankless job, innit?”
“Prudence and discretion are rarely popular,” Hermione agreed
wisely, now glancing aside at James, who sank lower in his seat.
“The point is,” Harry spoke up, “This is a serious dilemma that
needs to be resolved. We all have a hand in causing it. So it’s up to us to
try to mend it before any more Muggle Londoners are terrorized by a
dragon in their streets.”
Hagrid nodded. “Or Norberta has to go one more day starvin’ and
terrified in th’ city somewheres.”
Hermione gave him an impatient look. “Or any poor old
gamekeeper gets sent away to Azkaban for the rest of his life. Let’s try to
keep this in perspective, shall we?”
Harry sat up in his chair and put his spectacles back on. “We’ve
been fortunate so far that Norberta went into hiding somehow. But it won’t
last forever. The first task is to find her and get her out of the city without
anyone else seeing her, Muggle or otherwise. The second task…?” He
glanced across the table to Ron, who perked up.
“I spoke to Charlie this afternoon by floo. He says they’re pretty
crowded now, what with the Romanian government rounding up and
interring all registered dragons in his preserve. But according to him,

there’s always a space for Norberta, even if it means letting her bunk with
the twins in their apartment in Brașov.”
“But!” Hagrid said, sitting up in his seat and putting both hands flat
onto the table. “I already made arrangements here! The barn’s all emptied
out an’ a-waitin’!”
Ron suddenly arched his eyebrows and made a point of arranging
the cups and saucers on the table before him.
“Hagrid,” Hermione said gently. “You know you can’t keep
Norberta here on Hogwarts grounds. Headmaster Merlin may have a soft
spot for dangerous creatures, just like you, but even he won’t turn a blind
eye to a contraband dragon. And you can’t possibly think you can keep it a
secret from him…?”
Hagrid sat rigid for a long moment, chewing his lips and staring
hard at Hermione. Then he slumped back again, producing a strained creak
from his chair. “I know,” he admitted sadly. “I’ve known all along. It’s
daft, it is. I guess I was just hopin’ that, once th’ deed was done an’ she
was here…”
“It’s better this way,” Harry nodded. “For everybody involved.”
“Not fer Norberta!” Hagrid exclaimed, lifting his shaggy head
again. “She’ll go crazy, all cooped up with them Romanian Longhorns!
They’re not compatible with Ridgebacks, an’ they’re powerful territorial
creatures, those Longhorns! Norberta’s already half-lame, what with ‘er
bad wing! They’ll sense weakness an’ make mincemeat out o’ the poor old
girl!”
“It’s already settled,” Ron said, finally looking up from the table.
“If we can get Norberta out of the city on your ship, we only have to get her
as far as the wizard port in Bruges. We’ve arranged an airship that can get
her the rest of the way to Charlie in Brașov, no questions asked, cash on the
barrelhead.”
“An’ whose payin’ fer it?” Hagrid demanded, clearly groping for
any excuse to deny the plan.
“We all pitched in,” Hermione said, watching Hagrid closely, letting
him see her eyes. “And you can, too, if you want. It’s less than you might
think. And it’s the least we can do. After all, we really are partly
responsible for this whole thing. Even if some of us did try to act as a voice
of reason before the fact.” Here, she glanced up at Ralph and offered a
small, commiserating smile.

Hagrid drew a huge, quaking sigh, and then nodded slowly. “I
suppose yer right. But I won’t let any o’ yeh lot pay a single knut for th’
transport. I’ve plenty o’ money put away, an’ no other ideas what t’ do with
it. This is as good a way to spend it as any. The best way of all, prob’ly.”
Hermione nodded and relaxed in her seat.
Ralph asked, “So, if the first job is to find Norberta, how exactly do
we do that?”
“There’s no ‘we’,” Harry countered, looking up at the big boy, and
then at James and Rose. “You three have done enough already. All we
need you for now is to help us pinpoint precisely where Norberta was
headed. We’ll take it from there.”
“Thank you,” Ralph said again, finally collapsing into Hagrid’s huge
armchair before the fire.
“But Mum—!” Rose protested, but her mother was already shaking
her head firmly.
“Not a chance, Rose,” she said, brooking no argument. “You have
school tomorrow. No way I’m allowing you to stay out to who knows what
hour tonight, even if I can keep my eyes on you this time.”
James blinked in surprise. “We’re doing it tonight?”
“We are doing it,” his father clarified patiently, nodding aside at Ron
and Hermione. “We can’t afford to wait any longer. Norberta won’t stay
hidden forever. We need to find her now, and get her out of the city
immediately, before this whole mess goes total disaster and we’re all on the
hook for it.”
“Some more than others,” Ron pointed out quickly, glancing around
the table. “Just so we’re clear on that. Yeah?” He turned his gaze
apologetically to Hagrid, who nodded sadly.
Rose crossed her arms sullenly. “She was headed southwest,” she
admitted in a taut voice. “Low, skipping over cars and rooftops. She
couldn’t have gotten far.”
Ron leaned past Hermione and kissed his daughter on the top of her
head. “Thanks love. And for what it’s worth, I wish you could come
along. But your mum’s right. What kind of dad would I be if I took you
out dragon-hunting on a school-night?”
“A bloody brilliant one?” Rose suggested, glancing up at him from
beneath her eyebrows.
“Spot on,” he nodded gravely. Hermione elbowed him aside with a

roll of her eyes.
“So where will she be hiding?” Ralph asked from the armchair.
“The sewers, maybe?”
Hagrid shook his head. “Nah, nah,” he sighed, “Norwegian
Ridgebacks are powerful good at hidin’, but they’ll always look fer
someplace that feels recognizable to ‘em. Someplace that reminds ‘em o’
their ancestral homeland, all comfortin’ and familiar.”
“Charlie says the same thing,” Ron agreed. “He says they have
strong memories burnt into their instincts of the lands and places they
originally came from. He says all we have to do is find someplace that
looks and feels like it might fit right into the Norwegian countryside, a
hundred years ago.”
James frowned at his uncle. “In modern London?”
Ron shrugged. “Well… sure. You know. Something that feels
Norwegian-like. So…” He looked around at the others, “what do things
look like in Norway, then?”
“There’s lots of fjords,” Ralph suggested. “My dad’s always going
on about the fjords. Says he means to take us there to see them someday.
Says they’re a wonder of the world.”
Rose gave a brisk sigh. “There aren’t any fjords in central London.”
“All right, then,” Harry said with a nod. “So, buildings and things.
What would look Norwegian enough to attract a scared and homesick
dragon?”
Ron sat up and pointed at Harry in inspiration. “Moss on roofs!
With, like, trees growing on top. Right? All fairy-tale and heavy wood and
fancy cut-outs on the doors, that sort of thing.” He glanced aside at
Hermione. “Er, right?”
“This is definitely a problem,” Harry said, “if none of us has any
idea what architectural details might look Norwegian enough to attract a
wayward dragon.”
“Um,” James said, his eyes going wide as an idea materialized, fully
formed, in his head. “Will you let me come along tonight…?”
“No,” Hermione repeated, putting her hand down on the table.
“We’ve already been over this— ”
“IF,” James interrupted, glancing from his aunt to his father,
knowing that he was severely pressing his luck, “if I can find us an expert
on all sorts of architecture?”

Harry studied his son, his eyes probing, skeptical but reluctantly
considering. “And just who,” he asked slowly, “might this architectural
expert be?”

19. BACK TO LONDON
“You told your dad!?” Millie hissed, her eyes bulging in the
shadows outside the Hufflepuff common room door.
“I didn’t say any names,” James whispered defensively, glancing
around to assure they weren’t overheard. The stacks of barrels along the
corridor offered a nominal hiding place, and the low ceiling eliminated
echoes. Dimly, a little wistfully, James remembered kissing Millie in
almost this exact spot only a few weeks earlier. “I just said I knew
somebody who knows architecture. And I can’t tell you what we need a
person like that for. Not until you agree to come. And I really hope you
will, because, well, we really do need you and your architectural expertise.”
Millie rolled her eyes impatiently. She was dressed in loose grey
sweatpants and a yellow Hufflepuff Quidditch tee shirt. The hand-lettered
legend across the front read WE’LL HUFFlePUFF and BLOW YOUR
HOUSE DOWN!
“James,” Millie said, covering her eyes with one hand. “I’ve got
exactly one book on the subject, and I’ve barely had a chance to crack it so
far. What sort of ‘expertise’ do you need, exactly?”
James hedged a little, shifting his weight from foot to foot. “Well.
We need somebody who can recognize building styles that might look at

home in… a different country.”
Millie peeked over her hand at him, and then dropped it, cocking her
head. “What country?”
“Norway,” James answered, deciding to go for broke.
“I don’t know anything about Norwegian architecture,” Millie said,
bracing her hands on her hips. “Not any more than the average person
does.”
“I’m the average person,” James said helplessly, “and up until ten
minutes ago I didn’t know Norwegian architecture was even a thing!”
“Look, I wouldn’t be any help,” Millie insisted, becoming annoyed.
“Whatever you told your dad, I doubt I can live up to it. When it comes to
Norway, I can barely tell a redwood stave from a Romanesque.”
“See?” James brightened, boggling at her in the dark. “You do
know what you’re talking about!”
“Those are just words I picked up while skimming books,” Millie
exclaimed in annoyance. “The sentence barely even makes sense. If you
really want someone who knows their stuff, why don’t you go talk to
Blake? Poor bloke’s probably still groping around for his invisible car.”
She turned away, reaching for the door.
“Millie,” James whispered, stopping her with a hand on her
shoulder. She halted, but didn’t turn back to him. Still whispering, he said,
“I’m sorry for the way I acted that night. I’m not sorry for Blake—I still
think he’s an obnoxious, scheming pikey. But I’m sorry to you that I was a
jealous, suspicious duffer. And later on the train, it was stupid of me to tell
Ralph what I did. I didn’t want you to find out from him. I acted like a
coward.”
Millie considered this, one hand still on the latch of the common
room door. “I could’ve taken it,” she said quietly. “If you’d just come and
told me yourself.”
“I was on my way to do that,” James sighed. “But I kept finding
reasons to put it off. I didn’t want to hurt you.”
“Well,” she nodded, still staring back at the closed door, “you did
hurt me. But I’m a big girl. I can handle it. And I’m mostly over it.
Mostly.”
James lowered his hand. “I’m glad. I do really like you, Millie. I
just don’t…”
He stopped, knowing he couldn’t go any further without explaining

his connection to Petra, and the hopeless love he felt for her.
Fortunately, he didn’t need to say anymore. Millie glanced back at
him over her shoulder, and the look on her face told him she was content to
leave it at that.
“This doesn’t make me know any more about Norwegian
architecture,” she said, meeting his gaze.
He shrugged and sighed.
Millie turned back to him fully. “But it does make me slightly more
willing to help you. If not for your sake, then at least for your dad. I’ve
been hearing about him since I was in nappies. Let me change and get my
coat. It’s about time my name appeared in one of Revalvier’s books.”

Merlin came along as well.
James didn’t discover this until they were already on the ship,
barreling along the subterranean tunnels en route back to London. As he
and Millie clambered down the steps into the narrow hold, they encountered
the headmaster seated on a crate reading a small but immensely thick book,
a pair of glinting spectacles perched low on his nose.
James stumbled to a halt so quickly that Millie clambered into him
from behind.
The ship rocked precipitously and groaned all around, occasionally
juddering as the hull ground against the rushing tunnel beyond. Merlin
seemed completely oblivious to these things, but he did clap his book shut
and look up at the students, his face merely pleasantly curious.
“I doubt you two have developed your sea legs yet,” he announced,
and patted a bench bolted to the sloping hull next to him. “Do come sit
down before you do yourselves harm.”
James hesitated, his mind racing with a mixture of speechless
surprise and cold fear. Why was the headmaster here? What did he know?
Was he a portent of official trouble to come?

After a moment, Millie pushed James aside and half walked, half
stumbled to the bench. Strategically, she sat at the end of the bench furthest
from the headmaster, leaving James the space right to him. With a silent
sigh and a gulp, he lurched to the bench and fell to a seat upon it.
Merlin opened his tiny book again, adjusted his spectacles, and
casually said, “I trust your father, aunt, and uncle are assisting Mr. Hagrid in
piloting the ship to our destination?”
James nodded uncertainly. He knew that there wasn’t much piloting
to be done once the ship was caught in the throat of the rushing tunnels, but
felt there was no point in explaining it.
Instead, he asked in a low voice, “I guess we’re all going to be in
trouble when we get back?”
“Trouble?” the headmaster repeated the word as if he’d never heard
it before. “Whatever for?”
James blinked aside at him. “You know why we’re going to
London, right? You’re not just along for the ride?”
Merlin shrugged his huge shoulders. “I know that magical
safeguards in the cities have deteriorated to the point that a dragon has
penetrated Muggle spaces, causing some distress to hapless witnesses. And
I know that you and your friends were ultimately responsible for it.” He
tilted an eye at James, as if he could see the wave of guilt that washed over
him, making him shrink against the hull wall. Lowering his voice to a low
rumble, the headmaster said, “Your error was not in attempting to rescue the
dragon from her own persistent instincts, Mr. Potter. Until recent years,
normal magical protections would have rendered the city impenetrable to
creatures such as she. Nor did you err in not telling me of your plans. I am,
personally, quite content when citizens willingly delegate these tasks to
themselves. It frees those such as myself to their own unique devices.”
“So…” James said, frowning a little. “We’re not in trouble?”
“Your error,” Merlin said, raising a finger, “and the error of your
companions, was to trust an elf whose motives were proven to be suspect.”
James sat up in surprise. “How did you know about her? We didn’t
mention her to my dad or anyone else!”
Merlin drew a deep sigh and blew it out thoughtfully. “I’d prefer to
allow you to believe that I divined this information via my own mysterious
and terrible machinations. But I find that trust is a more valuable
commodity than awe when it comes to you, Mr. Potter. Therefore I will

admit: I spoke to Hagrid, and he wisely regaled me with the whole story.
We conversed on the deck of this very ship as we awaited you and your
family. He told me of the house elf, and her sabotage of your otherwise
courageous, if rather foolhardy, arrangement with his giantish kin.”
James slumped in mingled relief and humiliation. “I tried to tell
them that Heddlebun couldn’t be trusted. I saw what she did back at the
Vandergriff’s house.”
“You saw it,” Merlin clarified, “But Hagrid did not. Nor your
cousin, or Mr. Walker, or Mr. Dolohov. ”
James glanced aside at him again. “Exactly. So?”
“So the truth was clear for you to see, but cloudy for them. It was
your responsibility to make it clear, by whatever means necessary. Thus,
the responsibility for the error rests heavier on your shoulders than theirs.”
This wasn’t the first time that James had encountered the
headmaster’s strict, unforgiving interpretation of responsibility, but it still
nettled him to no end. He crossed his arms, clutching his shoulders against
the chill of the hold. “So it’s all my fault, then. Is that what you want me to
hear?”
Merlin shrugged again. “If there is one thing that constantly
dismays me about this age, it is the speed and ease with which good people
give up. Grant me a stubborn donkey over a weak-willed saint. At least the
donkey’s kick can be aimed at the proper doors.”
“So,” James said, rolling his eyes to himself, “just to be clear, are
we in trouble or not?”
“That is what we are on this journey to discover,” Merlin answered,
returning his gaze to the small book in his hands. To James’ eye, the book
looked completely blank, but he knew that this was surely an illusion to
prevent its being read by the likes of him. “For you, Mr. Potter, the days of
trouble being meted out in house points and lines are over. Make no
mistake: from here onward, trouble shall be measured in laws, years, and
blood.”
James chose to view this as a good thing, in the sense that it didn’t
seem to indicate that the headmaster intended to give him, Ralph, or Rose
any official punishment.
Soon enough, the ship tilted upwards and seemed to accelerate. The
momentum pushed James against Millie, almost driving her off her end of
the short bench. Merlin, however, remained completely planted, as if his

feet were rooted to the floor. He continued to read his tiny, fat book,
peering down through his spectacles, even as the ship rocked upright,
seemed to hover in suspension for a long, sickening moment, and then
keeled slowly forward, falling flat again onto a thudding, sloshing surface.
“Londontown, I presume,” Merlin said, finally tucking his book into
his robes and standing as much as the low overhead would allow. Footsteps
sounded from above, moving quickly. Merlin climbed the stairs to the deck
with James and Millie following close behind.
Cold air coursed over the deck above and whistled eerily through
the rigging. By the look of the city all around, the Gertrude appeared to
have surfaced in exactly the same place as last time. Fortunate, of course,
since the ice of the Thames had not frozen over the original hole yet.
The adults congregated on the stern of the ship and, without a word,
apparated to the shore, materializing on a long boardwalk in the shadow of
a dark wharf, where they were nothing more than shadows on a darker
background. Millie side-along apparated with Hermione and Ron, while
Harry remained last to take James.
“That was wily of you to arrange to come along the way that you
did,” he said with a wry smile. “I hope your friend Millie knows enough to
make it worth it.”
James shrugged a little. “She hopes so, too.”
He took his father’s hand when he offered it. A moment later, the
world vanished into a whip-crack and a whirl of cold darkness. Within a
sliver of a second, James’ feet smacked down onto the leaning planks of the
boardwalk.
When he looked up, Merlin had his staff in his hand, having
produced it out of thin air, as he always did when he desired it. He held it
aloft over the edge of the boardwalk, pointing it toward the dark ship where
it bobbed in its circle of broken ice.
“Cuddiasid,” he said, reverting to the guttural language of his
ancient origins. A wave of purple light swept upwards through the runes of
his staff, culminating in the tip with a brief but blinding flash. When
James’ eyes cleared, the Gertrude was gone. Shards of broken ice choked
the hole where it had rocked only a second before. The ship was still there,
James knew, but rendered utterly hidden and invisible through whatever
prehistoric enchantment the sorcerer had cast over it.
“That’s pretty handy,” Millie commented, awed. “I see why you

came along.”
“My usefulness has only begun to reveal itself,” Merlin said,
clacking his staff to the wooden plank next to his feet. “Assuming that your
usefulness serves as well as Mr. Potter hopes.”
Millie looked uncomfortably from Merlin to James.
Hagrid spoke up, pointing to the brightly glowing shape of Tower
Bridge in the near distance. “Norberta went that way. Down into th’ city,
southwest from th’ south tower.”
Harry struck out, inviting the others to follow. “Then let us get into
the proper vicinity. Perhaps we will get lucky and stumble upon the
unmistakable stench of dragon manure.”
Ron shrugged gamely. “That’s the only time that smell’s been
called ‘lucky’, I wager.”
“Wellnow,” Hagrid suggested, shrugging his coat more tightly about
his shoulders, “I’ve always found dragon scat t’ ‘ave a not unpleasant odor,
as a matter o’ fact. Now hippogriff guano, gor…” He shook his head
violently, “noble creatures they may be, but there’s a stink to peel the
varnish off yer broomstick.”
Following along behind, Hermione sniffed, “I expect there are better
topics of conversation we might explore.”
From there, the troupe walked in silence as they approached the
lights and sounds of the city, climbing a switchback of concrete stairs to a
thoroughfare lit with brilliant orange-ish streetlamps on tall, industriallooking posts. The street was surprisingly busy for the hour, filled with
gleaming black taxis, lorries belching smoke, red double-decker buses, and
endless automobiles. Dozens of traffic lights hung over cross-roads,
blinking their red, amber, and green eyes at the lines of vehicles below. In
one direction, Tower Bridge loomed over low rooftops. In the other, a
massive roundabout spun with vehicles, lit like a flying saucer, like a largerthan-life version of the Wocket from James’ first year.
Merlin stepped out to cross the crowded thoroughfare, completely
ignoring the rushing vehicles that bore down on him, their headlamps
glaring and painting his robes with brightness.
“Wait!” James called, alarmed, but it was too late. Vehicles
swooped past and around the huge man at full speed, neither swerving nor
sounding their horns. Neither did Merlin pay the vehicles any attention. He
merely strode across the many lanes, his staff clacking the pavement at his

side. Halfway across, he paused to look back at the people watching,
dumbfounded, from the curb behind.
“A little trick I learned navigating herds of stampeding Erumpents
during my travels in darkest Africa,” he called in his deep, resonating
voice. “Follow close behind. We have a schedule to keep.”
“Oh, bloody hell,” Ron muttered in a high voice. “He’s not serious,
is he?”
Hermione said, “I think I’ll take the cross-walk, if you don’t mind.”
She struck off at a trot toward the nearest traffic light some fifty yards away.
“I’m with her,” Ron nodded firmly. “We’ll catch up to ‘Mr. Red
Cross-code Man’ on the other side, and schedule be damned.”
Hagrid wrung his huge hands in miserable indecision, glancing back
and forth between the headmaster’s retreating back and the hurrying
Weasleys. “I’ll jus’…” He hooked a thumb over his shoulder, beginning to
back away, “keep an eye on ‘em, then. Erm.” Turning, he hastened to join
Ron and Hermione, his long coat flapping behind him.
“I’m going to try it,” Millie said, watching the headmaster with a
twinkle in her eye.
“What!?” James began, “Millie, we can’t just—” but she had
already stepped off the curb. Walking purposefully, without a glance back,
she began to stride across the first lane. Headlamps painted her side with
increasing luminance as vehicles bore down on her.
“Millie!” he called, and took one step down from the curb. A bus
swept past her, buffeting her hair with the zooming blast of its passage. She
didn’t even glance at it.
“Dad!” James exclaimed, turning aside to his father, but his father
wasn’t there anymore, either. The elder Potter was also striding out onto
the busy street, neither hurrying nor hesitating, keeping his gaze straight
ahead as vehicles blurred past in both directions, whipping at his pant-legs
and unruly hair.
James hovered a moment longer, completely stymied with
uncertainty. And then, with a gulp and a steeling of his already frayed
nerve, he stepped out onto the pavement of the thoroughfare himself.
The key, it appeared, was not to watch, not to pay the slightest
attention to the rushing lanes of vehicles on either side. He kept his eyes
firmly on his father’s back as he trod ahead of him, even as his father
seemed to watch Millie ahead of him. Merlin had reached the other side

now, having crossed no less than six lanes of busy nighttime traffic.
Without warning, a load of vehicles blared past in both directions,
flickering between James and his father, momentarily obscuring his view.
His eyes strained, reflexively trying to follow the flashing metal and glass
of the vehicles, to look both ways to assure that his next step wouldn’t place
him into the path of a speeding lorry. And yet, just barely, James resisted,
keeping his gaze locked dead ahead. And each step, amazingly, carried him
forward between roaring cars and taxis, buses and vans, threading through
them in a sort of suicidal dance. The passing drivers, for their part, seemed
completely oblivious to the line of magical pedestrians crossing between
them. James could feel the hot blat of exhausts on his face, the sooty grit of
road grime peppering his cheeks and hair. And yet, almost before he
thought it possible, he found himself stepping up onto the curb of the other
side of the boulevard, leaving the deafening drone of traffic behind him.
“That was brilliant!” Millie exclaimed, grabbing James’ hands and
pulling him forward, into a narrow alley. “Wasn’t it a complete blast?”
“How could you do that?” James gasped, his heart still slamming in
his throat. “Either of you?!”
Harry shrugged with one shoulder, glancing into the mouth of the
alley, where Merlin was still striding away, a mere silhouette against the
security lights beyond. “If Merlin said it was safe, I’ve come to trust him,”
he said. “But don’t you dare ever try that on your own. Either of you.”
“No worries there!” James said, still struggling to catch his breath
over the thunder of his heart. He glanced around the street outside the
alley. “Where’s Aunt Hermione and Uncle Ron?”
“They’ll catch up to us,” his father answered, “come on. It would
seem that the Headmaster is in the teeth of the hunt.”
James found himself running along behind his father into the
shadows and stink of the alley. Darkness choked the space, interrupted only
by glaring security lights that didn’t seem to illuminate anything other than
slushy puddles and hulking trash bins.
The alley ended in a narrow cobbled road bordered by a long chainlink fence. Beyond the fence was a dark open space, crowded with low
weeds and bushes, that James vaguely recognized as a railway switchyard.
Merlin had stopped before the fence, the runes of his staff pulsing a
pale blue. “In there,” he said, nodding his bearded chin. He stepped
forward and the chain-link rattled and rang before him as if buffeted by a

sudden, silent gale. The mesh of metal unfurled and unraveled, spiraling
out from a centre point and forming a gaping opening just as the headmaster
stepped through it, not even bowing his head. James and Millie clambered
to follow him through, now with James’ father in the rear, his wand held at
the ready, his eyes alert behind his spectacles.
“What about the others?” Millie said, her voice unconsciously
hushed beneath the steady thrum of the city all around.
“Coming,” Hermione’s voice called, approaching from behind.
James turned to see his aunt run lightly out of the darkness, her bushy hair
bouncing about her face. “I’m right here. And Ron is…” She turned to
look back. “Well. On his way, it would seem.”
“Save yourselves!” a man’s voice wheezed from the vicinity of the
chain-link fence. “I’ll just lie down here and die.”
“Come on, Ron,” Harry called back. “Think of it as exercise.”
Ron approached at a shamble, breathing hard. “You mean she’s not
the only one what does this running thing just for fun? That’s a masochist
streak, you ask me.”
Millie asked, “What about Hagrid?”
“I thought it might be a good idea to have him ask around at some of
the wizarding establishments near Diagon Alley,” Hermione said. “There
are loads of pubs and pawn shops and the like, secretly run by witches and
wizards for Muggle patronage. Some of them might have seen or heard
something about where Norberta has holed up.”
“He didn’t want to go,” Ron said, glancing aside at Harry. “But we
thought… er… he might be more useful in that capacity.”
Harry nodded once, meaningfully. Tonight’s plan relied largely on
subtlety and finesse, James knew, and neither of those things exactly sprang
to mind when one thought of Hagrid.
The troupe began to move into the darkness of the switchyard again.
Harry nodded toward Merlin and explained, “The old man seems to have
caught a hint of a trail or something.”
“Not a trail as such,” Merlin said as he walked. “There may not be
much wild left in the City, but what there is of it, the weed-grasses and
brush, the beetles and rats, they remember the scent of a powerful beast
near here, too vague to pinpoint exactly.”
Moving swiftly, James followed his dad and the others into the
darkness. Soon, they were stepping up over humps of railroad tracks, their

footsteps grinding on gravel.
“Miss Vandergriff,” Merlin announced from the lead, “what shall we
be looking for from this point? I understand that you are our resident expert
on the sorts of Norwegian structures that might attract a particular
dragonish heritage.”
“I’m nobody’s expert,” Millie said, “I told James, I barely know
anything—”
Merlin stopped and turned, more suddenly and gracefully than
seemed possible for a man of his size. In the darkness, he was like a
faceless totem rising out of the rail-beds.
“Miss Vandergriff,” he said, his voice soft and deep, yet strangely
penetrating. “While humility is widely considered a virtue, it is not one that
I myself prize under even normal circumstances. I believe that you do
indeed have the requisite knowledge to accomplish our mission this night.
Therefore, pray, do not allow your own understandable insecurities to be an
impediment. Call upon what your interests have cultivated. What are we
seeking? More accurately, what may have attracted a creature of some
limited intellect seeking a reminder of her ancestral Norwegian homeland?”
Millie opened her mouth to object, paused, and then, after a
thoughtful moment, closed it again. James recognized Merlin’s subtle
powers at work. The ancient sorcerer did not control people magically,
exactly. But he did exert a sort of calming, focusing influence on them at
certain important times.
James turned to look more closely at Millie. Her eyes were open
wide, not in shock, but in thought. Her pupils flicked rhythmically back
and forth, as if she was scanning a file cabinet in her own mind.
“There was no such thing as architecture in Norway for centuries,”
she said in a musing voice, blinking rapidly. “They built huts and houses
out of whatever was at hand, with no thought to design. Except for the
churches. Those they built with things called staves, tall posts that allowed
them to build very tall and narrow, with sharp, sloping roofs. The magical
varieties were built with Redwood staves, allowing them to be massively
tall. Most of them were built with a sort of vertical diminishing
redundancy.”
“Vertical…? Now she’s just not making any sense,” James muttered
aside to his uncle Ron, who shrugged and shook his head.
Millie glanced at James. “I’m standing right here, you know,” she

said. “I can hear everything you say.”
James gave a shrug, half apologetic, half impatient.
Hermione urged gently, “Go on, Millie, you’re doing well.”
Millie narrowed her eyes again in thought. “Vertical diminishing
redundancy just means that the church structure is repeated atop itself in
smaller and smaller versions, up and up, sort of like a Chinese pagoda.”
“Oh,” James nodded and shrugged. “Now I understand.”
Millie ignored him. “Norway is famous for their stave churches.
It’s their most defining building style. At least, it was for hundreds of
years.”
“Then that is the sort of structure we shall be searching for,” Merlin
agreed, turning and stalking onward again.
Glancing around the switchyard, Harry said, “I doubt there are many
stave churches in London.”
“It doesn’t have to be an actual stave church,” Hermione suggested.
“Norberta’s no architectural expert. She’ll just look for something that sort
of reminds her of such a place.”
The four tramped onward, climbing over humps of railroad tracks,
moving into a warren of parallel switches dotted with lines of dark
passenger carriages and tankers, looming like sleeping dinosaurs in the
darkness. Trailing behind Merlin, who seemed to be following a sort of
communal instinct all his own, they wended into the lines of railroad cars,
cutting across wherever they could, climbing over iron connector knuckles
wherever they couldn’t. Between the tracks, forests of dark gantries jutted
up, each topped with boxes containing colored signal lights, currently all
dark. A dizzying array of overhead wires connected the signals, stretching
in every direction. James wondered how Norberta could possibly have
navigated through those wires and gantries, had she attempted to land in
this area.
Finally, the troupe came out beyond the lines of switches to a row of
complicated brick buildings lined with ranks of windows, festooned with
smokestacks and conveyor ramps covered in corrugated steel, each more
industrial and looming than the last.
“Now where?” Ron asked, turning on the spot. “Any of these old
places look large enough for Norberta to hide in.”
“That one,” Harry pointed.
James turned to look where his father was pointing. Sure enough,

rising over the furthest roof, a tall structure hulked upwards against the
clouds. It was a sort of silo tower with levels of steeply sloping roofs, all
rusted to the color of Redwood. Running along the lowest roof were
gigantic faded letters, barely legible: CROSTICK COAL.
Millie shrugged a little uncertainly.
“Vertical diminishing
redundancy. In a manner of speaking.”
Silently, with Merlin in the lead and Harry bringing up the rear
again, the group picked their way along the edge of the dark brick
buildings. Dead weeds and brush poked through sullen snowdrifts,
diminishing to slushy bogs between the structures. Enormous smokestacks
and mountainous piles of coal blotted out the breeze and noise and distant
city lights, creating a sort of watchful gloom. Finally, the group picked
their way across a pocked gravel parking lot toward the base of the Crostick
Coal building. Signs posted to the chain-link fences rattled in the breeze.
James turned to read one as they passed: CONDEMNED PROPERTY!
KEEP OUT.
He worried briefly that Hagrid was not there with them. Then, he
shivered and worried more acutely that he and the rest of them were.
The shadows surrounding the ancient coal work were dense and
silent, leaving a distinct sense of unseen eyes peering from every broken
window. And yet Merlin, for his part, seemed completely unfazed by the
eeriness of the scene. Perhaps, James mused, the old sorcerer liked it here.
After all, this was a section of the city that was slowly, irrevocably, being
reclaimed by nature. The environmental predators of civilization—rust,
weeds, and entropy—were hard at work here, reasserting the feral
inevitability of nature. And the green wilds of nature, of course, were
Merlin’s element.
James couldn’t be certain, be he almost thought the headmaster was
humming cheerfully in the deepening gloom.
A not-unpleasant fact occurred to him: it was hard to be especially
frightened in the presence of a happily humming Merlin.
The six travelers followed a set of weedy railroad tracks into a sort
of courtyard surrounded by huge, empty doorways, each large enough to
drive a lorry through and as black as pitch. Hulking over the tracks was a
monstrosity of metal hoppers and closed hatches, blotting out the clouds
above.
And there was a smell. It was not dragon dung, as James’ father had

hoped. It was a high chemical smell, like the potions closet on a steamy
day. James recognized it immediately.
“It’s her breath!” he whispered, raising his nose to the still air.
“That’s what it smells like when she flames! She must be here
somewhere!”
Merlin angled toward one of the huge open doors. As he did, a brief
gust of warm air blew out of it, rippling his robes. A chuff of yellow
firelight illuminated a scaly snout, a curl of tail, and a pair of gold-foil eyes
peering out of the darkness.
Merlin didn’t hesitate, didn’t even slow his step. But he did begin to
speak. James recognized the sound of the sorcerer’s old Welsh, only low
and muttered, like words sung to a half-sleeping baby.
The dragon’s huge eyes were only visible where they reflected the
distant city lights. They seemed to open wide and elevate, watchful and
wary as Merlin approached.
Merlin raised a hand, as if to offer a benediction to the dragon.
Then, amazingly, he lowered it to the dragon’s hard, scaly snout. Norberta
lowered her head again and her eyes seemed to slit shut in the darkness.
Low and rumbling, Merlin spoke to her, his tone lilting and hypnotic.
Almost to himself, James said, “Looks like Heddlebun isn’t the only
beast whisperer in town.”
His father looked at him. “Who?”
James glanced up and then shook his head. “This elf that Hagrid
brought along when we first came to collect Norberta. She could talk to
beasts, soothe them, like. But she used her powers to set Norberta off when
we got out onto the river. She wanted to make a point about elf rights or
something.”
Millie frowned. “By setting a dragon loose in London?”
Hermione gave a brisk little sigh. “People will resort to whatever
gets attention when they feel that every other option’s been taken away.”
The earth thumped faintly as Merlin backed away from the dark
doorway, leading Norberta out into the faint nightglow. Her head emerged
first on its long, serpentine neck, sweeping low over the ground. Then her
shoulders hove into view, carrying the muscular bulk of her chest. Finally,
her rear legs and tail appeared. Her claws clattered on the frozen gravel and
her footsteps made faint tremors, but otherwise she was completely silent,
her golden eyes half-lidded, contentedly following Merlin and his gently

glowing staff.
A little awed, Ron said, “Back to the ship, then?”
“Indeed,” Merlin answered. “But not the way we came. Our dragon
friend will never fit through the alleyway. Nor could she cross the
thoroughfare that we traversed. We shall have to forge an alternate route
through the city proper.”
“That’s, like, an actual dragon…!” Millie said, her eyes bulging at
the enormous creature. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen one this up close and
personal!”
“A privilege we would like to reserve for as few people as possible,”
Hermione commented, a little worriedly.
Merlin nodded. “Which means we shall have to tread very
carefully. Our dragon friend is quite docile at the moment, but make no
mistake: beneath her current calm lies a hungry and terrified and deeply
driven dragon, responding to the most fundamental and undeniable instincts
of all creatures. Her male counterpart, the redoubtable Montague, is nearer
than ever. We must increase the distance between them while she is still,
nominally, under our influence.”
Harry gave the old wizard a sidelong grin. “I assume that you have
some suitably cunning subterfuge in mind, Headmaster?”
“You speak well, Mr. Potter,” Merlin nodded, meeting Harry’s smile
with a small one of his own. “I sometimes wonder if perhaps there is some
trace of sorcerer in your lineage.”
Harry bobbed his head and shrugged. “Medieval Muggle royalty, I
once was told. But sadly, no sorcery.”
Merlin narrowed his eyes at this, unsurprised, and then turned his
attention back to the dragon who stood nearby, her head hovering just over
his shoulder.
“I beg your pardon, Madame Norberta,” he said in a low voice, and
patted her again on the snout. “Do try not to be too offended…”
Ten minutes later and three blocks away, a huge metal gate
shuddered slightly, shaken by a golden flash. The padlock securing the gate
snicked open, releasing its loops of chain, which unwound and slithered to
the ground with a ringing chime of metal. The gates eased inward, opening
onto the unmistakable depths of the railroad switchyard beyond.
James stepped out into the buzzing streetlight, his eyes wide, his
hair buffeting in a sudden gust of wind. He looked around, up and down

the narrow street. Cars lined the far curb, parked bumper to bumper, but no
one was currently in sight.
“All clear,” he called back, cupping his hands to his mouth.
A moment later, Millie crept out into the light, hurrying to join
James, her face a mask of mingled excitement and trepidation. Ron and
Hermione came next, followed by Harry Potter and Merlin, the former
glancing around alertly, his wand just visible in his sleeve, the latter
walking with calm, even strides, moving straight out into the empty street,
leaving no footprints on the sheen of melting slush.
Following Merlin at a low, grumbling idle, was what looked like, for
all intents and purposes, the largest, dirtiest, most conspicuous refuse truck
that James had ever seen. The truck’s tyres bumped down over the curb,
thumped in icy puddles, and angled out onto the road to join Merlin as he
chose a direction, seemingly at random, and began to walk.
The refuse truck followed him, its engine throbbing throatily, rolling
along at his very heels. Behind the filthy glass of its windscreen, the
steering wheel pivoted by itself, with no driver. This, however, was perhaps
less strange than the fact that the truck was driving backwards, leading with
its open rear compactor, currently empty but looking hungry enough to
swallow a small car whole. James wasn’t sure if this detail was due to
Merlin’s unfamiliarity with the operation of municipal fleet vehicles, or if
the wily magician simply preferred a challenge.
The drone and honk of far busier streets could be heard from very
nearby. The troupe would be avoiding those streets however possible,
sticking to less populous, albeit narrower side streets and avenues. This did
mean, however, that their route to the river would be much longer and more
circuitous than preferred.
“Hermione, Ron,” Harry said, turning to his friends, “why don’t you
two head back to the Gertrude and pilot her to London Bridge City Pier?
That will be a more convenient place to embark from our new route.”
Ron nodded his agreement, but Hermione looked concerned.
“Should we separate, though?”
“It’s probably for the best at this point,” Harry said. “We’ll be less
conspicuous this way.”
“And what could possibly go wrong?” Ron grinned, throwing an
arm around Hermione’s shoulders.
Hermione grudgingly agreed. “But perhaps we should take Millie

and James with us, then. They’ve done their part.”
“No way!” Millie exclaimed, and then composed herself. “I mean,
I’d much rather stay and watch. If you don’t mind, Madame.”
“Ugh,” Hermione rolled her eyes. “Don’t call me Madame.”
“I’m with Millie,” James said, “And Uncle Ron’s right. What could
go wrong? We’ve got the great Merlinus Ambrosius with us!”
Harry nudged his son and muttered, “I think ‘the great Merlinus
Ambrosius’ is fairly immune to flattery.”
“You would think wrongly,” Merlin observed idly from some
distance away, not turning around.
“So be it,” Hermione said, raising both hands. “But just remember,
without me or your friend Ralph here, it’s up to Millie to be the voice of
reason.” She glanced at James, then his father and Merlin. “Because I
know none of you three will be.”
“Come, love,” Ron said, offering Hermione his arm. “Allow me
whisk you away on a winter’s moonlit boat ride down the romantic and
pristine Thames River.”
Hermione smiled at his roguish grin and took his arm. Together
they turned and hurried away, returning the way they had come.
James and Millie watched them go.
“They’re so cute,” she sighed.
James shrugged. “Cute is relative, I suppose.”
“We should keep moving,” Harry said briskly, turning and resuming
their walk along the footpath. Merlin strode onward down the centre of the
road, and the magically disguised Norberta budged forward to follow, her
engine throttling, her air brakes hissing and squeaking their release.
“Patience will be our ally,” Merlin reminded them. “We have
nothing to fear so long as we all keep our heads about us and our feet on the
ground.”
“Or our wheels on the road,” Millie added, skipping forward with
what James considered far too much glibness.
“As you say, Miss Vandergriff,” Merlin answered calmly.
With painstaking deliberation, the group walked along the street,
turned left, away from the brighter lights and thrum of nearby traffic, and
maintained a steady, sedate pace into an area of multi-level parking
structures, closed office buildings, occasional pubs (open and thumping
with music), and corner groceries (closed and barricaded for the night).

As they meandered from street to street, Merlin walked down the
centre line with Norberta the refuse truck prowling along right behind him,
backwards and grumbling deep in her engine, with the remainder of her
entourage walking beside her on nearby footpaths. Occasional cars passed
them, usually hurrying to get around the slow-moving truck, their drivers
barely sparing a second glance at the strange assembly. As they neared
crossings or small roundabouts, Merlin would first consult quietly with
Harry Potter, who seemed to know these streets extremely well, and then
turn to speak calming, indecipherable words to the refuse truck at his heel,
which thrummed its engine, shuddered on its dirty tyres, and hissed from its
air-brakes.
The truck still smelled of the fiery brimstone guts of Norberta, now
exhaling from the huge open rear compactor of the truck.
At one angle in the narrow street, a pair of young men, one skinny
and one fat, emerged from the neon glow of a questionable-looking
basement pub, each carrying nearly empty bottles of ale and swaying
slightly on their feet. They stumbled out into the path of Merlin and the
gently throttling truck, both of which came to a halt under the red glare of a
traffic light.
“Blimey,” the skinny man said, pushing his long ginger hair out of
his face. “This bloke is huge.” He stopped in the street and pointed up at
Merlin with the hand still holding a brown ale bottle. “Are you seeing this
bloke? He’s bloody hyooge!”
“I don’t think either of you are seeing anyone,” Merlin suggested,
arching an eyebrow for subtle emphasis. “Huge or otherwise. Merely a
common city vehicle about an honest night’s work.”
“Yeah,” the fatter man said, frowning and squinting. “I don’t see
nothing but a bleedin’ refuse truck. Come on, yeh piker.” He tugged his
ginger mate on the elbow, nearly pulling him off his feet.
The ginger man recovered, shrugged, and then tossed his bottle into
the open rear compactor of the refuse truck. With a hiss of hydraulics and a
shimmy-clatter that shook the entire truck, the compactor closed on the
bottle, chewed it up into tinkling bits, and then let out a strangely
brimstone-smelling belch.
The traffic light overhead clicked green. The troupe walked forward
again, angling into an alley lined with parked cars glinting under
streetlamps.

“Dad,” James said quietly, “I heard something over the holiday that
I wanted to ask you about.”
Harry ambled easily, scuffing his boots on the footpath. “What’s
that, son?”
James turned and glanced back at Millie who was walking behind
them, watching the gently rolling Norberta-truck. “I spoke to Millie’s
grandmother. Or, she spoke to me, actually. She told me some stuff about
Grimmauld Place.”
“You met the Countess?” Harry smiled aside at his son. “She’s quite
an impressive Lady, I’m told.”
James nodded and shrugged. “She says that when you inherited the
Black mansion, you inherited a sort of… er… title with it.”
“Did she say so,” Harry commented. There was no curiosity in his
voice, and James wondered if perhaps his dad did know more about the
Black estate than he’d ever admitted. “A title. Well, blimey.”
“She said it’s more than just a title, though,” James went on,
frowning as he thought back. “She says that it’s a responsibility. A sort of
ancient guardianship over some huge, elemental human force. They’re lots
of them, she says, and they’re all colours. Red was the Barony of Love,
Green was for ambition and greed, that sort of thing. Except that a lot of
the titles have died off or something, leaving their forces unguarded, just
running all out of control in the world.”
“Sounds serious,” Harry nodded, pursing his lips.
“Grandmother Eunice is a little, er, eccentric,” Millie commented,
approaching from behind and falling in beside James. “She believes all
sorts of crazy old things. She’s never read the Quibbler, but she’s got loads
in common with it.”
“Sure didn’t sound like the Quibbler to me,” James muttered.
“Grandmother can be very convincing,” Millie said, her tone turning
lofty. “After all, one doesn’t usually expect a Countess to be a bit of a wee
barmpot. But there’s a reason she no longer brings up such things with my
parents, or Bent and Mattie.”
From the centre of the narrow street, Merlin said, “I knew the
Viscount Blacke in my time. A thoroughly vicious and duplicitous man,
capable of deeds legendary in their capriciousness and vanity. We were
friends, in a sense.”
“Is that so?” Harry asked, still in an oddly banal voice, as if he was

only marginally interested. “The Black family is a thousand years old?”
“The line of Blacke is far older than that, I would wager,” Merlin
said. “And I would not be so quick to dismiss the legends of their charge.
The guardianship of the polarities of human nature was once an established
magical institution, inviolate and deeply respected, forming the very pillars
of humanity, without which civilised culture would be impossible. It is a
curiosity of this new age that because one finds an idea intellectually
offensive, one assumes it cannot be true.”
Millie bristled slightly. “I didn’t say I find the idea offensive. Just a
little barmy.”
James moved to the curb, catching up to Merlin. “So, you think
there may be something to what Millie’s grandmother says? About the
Black title being responsible for some huge elemental… something?”
Merlin shrugged. “I merely say that the idea has ancient precedent.
One cannot immediately dismiss it.”
“Did the Viscount Blacke that you knew have powers like that?
Was he in charge of some element of human nature?”
“The Viscount Blacke was famously reticent regarding details about
himself or his holdings. Meeting him in an inn, he would lament that he
had barely two coppers to rub together. And yet the opulence of his robes
and carriage made it clear that his wealth was incalculable. I never wasted
the breath to ask him about the rumours of his title.”
“But there were rumours?” James prodded, looking up at the
headmaster.
“There are always rumours.” Merlin nodded.
“So…?” James pressed again, glancing back at his father, annoyed
at the lack of interest he saw there. “What do you think the Black title is in
charge of?”
“I haven’t the faintest notion,” Merlin replied simply. “And that is
the truth. But I expect the name itself provides some minor hint.”
“Black?” James frowned.
“It is as you say, Mr. Potter. All the titles are colours. And yet what
do we know of the colour black?”
James shrugged. He didn’t always appreciate the headmaster’s
baroque conversational style. “I don’t know. It’s dark?”
Millie suggested, “It’s not truly a colour, is it? It’s the absence of
all colour.”

Merlin cocked his head slightly. “It depends upon how you look at
it. Black may not be a colour unto itself. But it absorbs every other hue. It
is, in fact, every colour combined.”
James’ eyes widened slightly at the thought. In a quieter voice, he
asked, “So… what does that mean for the elemental guardianship of the
Black title?”
Merlin turned to look aside at him again as he walked. “Haven’t the
foggiest notion, Mr. Potter.”
“It means,” Harry said from behind, “That if there is some enormous
dangerous potential inherent in our title, then like all such things, it is best
left buried, untouched, and safely forgotten. After all, we Potters don’t
have the greatest record with handling huge, earth-shaking responsibilities.”
“That is a topic of possible debate,” Merlin countered with a wry
look.
James was about to reply when a sudden noise startled him. Some
small but heavy object clanged off the side of Norberta’s truckish shape. It
struck the footpath and fumbled to a halt against a fire hydrant. James
looked and saw that it was a chunk of old brick.
“What the—” Millie started, when another brick struck Norberta,
bouncing off her high bonnet. She groaned and hissed her hydraulics,
shuddering on her huge tyres.
“Over there,” Harry said, pointing with his wand to a narrow alley
on their left. “Someone in there is having a bit of sport.”
Another brick sailed through the air, missed the refuse truck, and
broke into pieces on the road at Merlin’s feet. He looked up from it calmly,
but with a grim twinkle in his eye, following the trajectory back to the dark
alley.
“Muggle vandals?” Harry asked, stepping alongside Merlin.
“I think not,” Merlin answered quietly. “I smell something else
entirely. Guard our charge for a moment.”
And with that, he stalked away, his robes swaying in the cold air, his
feet silent on the slushy road. James watched as the huge wizard strode into
the shadows, putting out his hand as he did so, producing his staff out of
thin air. A moment later he was gone, vanished into the depths of the alley.
Harry watched. James stood next to him, eyes wide. Millie peered
from just behind his shoulder, silent. The three barely breathed. Behind
them, Norberta the refuse truck chugged idly, revving her engine with

rhythmic impatience.
No more bricks lobbed out of the alley.
Suddenly, a flash of blue light flickered from the throat of its
depths. The glare illuminated trash bins and doorways in a bright stutter,
and then darkness fell again, as seamless as a well.
“What’s he doing?” Millie whispered.
“Why isn’t he coming back?” James added.
Harry merely watched, his wand in his fist, pointed at the pavement
next to his feet.
Another flash came, more dimly this time, as if from a distance.
Barely heard over the constant drum of nearby traffic, a deep bellow
sounded. Merlin’s voice, shouting something. Harry tensed but remained
in place.
And then, half a minute later, a shadow stumbled out of the alley. It
wasn’t Merlin. James could see that right away. It was very small, very
thin, with huge, limp ears. The shadow stumbled to its knees, caught itself
with its arms, and then raised its large head, as if to look up at them.
Harry finally broke away and ran to the figure, wand out, but not
pointing at it. James hurried to join him.
It was a house elf dressed in a knotted tea towel. James recognized
the huge head and sad, anxious eyes. It was Piggen, the elf he had last seen
stoking the fire in Gryffindor tower weeks earlier.
Harry dropped to crouch next to the elf, concern and wariness
etched onto his face.
“Why are you here?” he asked, “Are you all right? Have you been
injured?”
Still hunkered on all fours over the curb, the elf peered up at Harry
with his huge, glistening eyes. Then, he turned his gaze to James.
“Piggen is sorry, Master Potter,” he said with heartbreaking
sincerity. “Piggen is a bad, bad elf.”
Behind James and Harry, Millie screamed.
James spun around clumsily, still half-kneeling behind his father.
Harry was quicker, however, launching back to his feet and sweeping his
wand around in a blurred arc.
“Lumos!” he barked, and his wand flared to blinding light,
illuminating the street like daylight, casting leaping black shadows behind
every object.

The refuse truck was rearing onto its front wheels, bulging and
creaking, tilting its gaping compactor toward the sky. With a convulsive
lunge, a ball of orange flame erupted from its metal guts. James realized
that Norberta the refuse truck was quickly transforming back into Norberta
the dragon. The rubber tyres stretched and burst into sinewy legs. The
mouth of the compactor gnashed, grew long fangs and elongated onto an
accordion neck, rising up between the buildings. The rumble of the engine
grew to a sustained roar, and fire once again burst into the sky, streaming
from the dragon’s unhinged jaws.
Another elf was riding on the back of Norberta’s neck, clinging tight
with long, agile fingers, its mouth moving quickly as it spoke to the dragon,
provoking it.
It was Heddlebun.
A lance of red light struck Norberta’s flank, exploding into sparks.
Dimly, James realized that his father was firing at her, trying to Stun her.
He fumbled his own wand out and aimed wildly, but before he could utter a
single spell, Norberta reared, unfurled her wings, and clapped them down
again, sending a wave of gritty wind washing over the street, rocking the
parked cars on their springs. The dragon leapt upwards, scratched and
clawed her way up a nearby parking structure, tearing loose great chunks of
concrete as she went, and clambered onto its roof with a flick of her long
tail.
“Wingardium Leviosa!” James’ father called, stabbing out his wand
again and arresting a huge chunk of concrete an instant before it could bash
itself to bits on the street below. Hunched in the hovering concrete’s
shadow, Millie lifted her head from beneath her clasped arms. Eyes
bulging, she looked up at the slowly revolving hunk of building, and then
scrambled sideways, out of its range.
With a grunt of released effort, James’ dad lowered his wand. The
concrete completed its fall, shattering liked a dropped plate.
James looked up at his dad, shocked and speechless, but his father
was already turning back to the alley, dropping his eyes to the small figure
of Piggen.
But Piggen wasn’t there.
Footsteps rang from the depths of the alley, not retreating but
approaching. Merlin reappeared, his staff held before him, its runes
glowing with fierce red light.

Breathing hard, the sorcerer looked from James to Harry. “Which
way did she go?”
Harry nodded to the scarred façade of the parking structure.
“Diagon Alley. Has to be.”
“Then let us not spare a moment!” Merlin commanded, already
moving forward. He broke into a run, reached to grasp Millie’s hand where
she stood dumbfounded in the street, and then vanished with her in tow,
leaving the crack of their disapparation echoing down the canyon of the
street.
“Well, James,” his father announced, reaching out with his left hand,
raising his wand in his right. “You said you wanted to be a Junior Auror-intraining, yes? Here’s your chance.”
With a gulp, James raised his own wand and grasped his father’s
hand.
The world whip-cracked away, spinning into a blur of oblivion. An
instant later, it sprang back into place, leaping up to smack James’ heels as
he landed next to his father. He looked around, pointing his wand
frantically. They were in another street now, this one wider but even less
illuminated. Before him was an old pub with mullioned windows and a
heavy wooden door beneath a swinging sign: The Leaky Cauldron.
Harry stepped swiftly into the dark street and raised his eyes,
looking out over the nearby rooftops.
Merlin burst through the front door of the Leaky Cauldron, his staff
leading, still pulsing with red light.
“There!” he announced, pointing to James’ right.
James spun to look, even as he heard the grating roar of the dragon’s
approach.
A decrepit apartment building, four floors high, stood on a wedge of
footpath between two angled streets. James craned to look up at its
roofline. There, an old wooden water tower stood on posts. Startlingly, the
water tower exploded, disintegrating into flying planks, flinging metal
braces, and a torrent of unleashed water. Norberta’s head plunged through
the water and bashed aside the remains of the tower. Her wings pumped
and she leapt from the building’s roof, sailed over empty space, kicked off a
lamp-post, and grappled up the face of a soot-stained factory, shattering
rows of windows as she went.
A blare of horns sounded from the connecting streets. Voices began

to shout in alarm.
“Damn and drat!” Harry breathed urgently, lifting his wand to fire
Stunning bolts at the scrabbling dragon. It was no use.
Merlin called magical spells in his guttural tongue, and lances of
vivid purple light spat over the street. Even these merely bounced off
Norberta’s scaly skin. Using her wings for leverage, she clawed and tore
her way to the roof of the factory, and then loped along its top. James
watched, horrified, as the great dragon lowered her head and plowed
between a pair of brick smokestacks, pulverizing their bases. Ponderously,
the smokestacks leaned toward each other, kissed their surfaces with a
sustained crunch, and then began to collapse, disintegrating into
themselves.
“Damn and drat!” Harry said again, this time in a half-shout. He
raised his wand nearly straight up, waiting for Norberta to appear between
the factory and the block above the Leaky Cauldron.
A bell clattered nearby and the door of the pub swung open. James
glanced aside to see a grizzled old wizard with a nose the size and color of a
blood orange peer out at them.
“Whassall this, then?” he said, his black eyes glimmering in the
dark. “Whassall the noise?”
Harry fired several shots in quick succession, even as Merlin leapt
backwards into the street, pointing his staff at the roof above, unleashing a
torrent of crackling energy.
The building shook. Grit and chunks of masonry broke from above,
raining down and clattering to the street all around.
The grizzled wizard jerked his head back into the door, which
slammed shut.
“She’s beyond the roof!” Harry called, lowering his wand and
lunging toward the door of the pub.
It was locked tight, rattling with bolts and chains. Without so much
as a backward glance, Harry simply stepped aside and gestured briefly with
his wand. After you, the motion seemed to say.
Merlin dipped his staff. Its runes flashed green and the door of the
Leaky Cauldron blew open, taking the remains of an iron deadbolt and
chains with it. The bell overhead gave an alarmed clatter and broke loose.
Harry led the way with Merlin immediately behind. James scrambled to
follow, passing the grizzled wizard with the blood orange nose who stood

huddled in the corner, fuming speechlessly at his demolished door.
James had been inside the Leaky Cauldron on many occasions and
assumed that it never technically closed. Indeed, even at this late hour, the
pub was crowded with patrons of all shapes and sizes, most gathered around
a long bar cluttered with glasses, steins, and bottles. Eyes turned to follow
Merlin, Harry, and James as they rushed past, pounding toward the rear
exit, wands and staff raised. Millie stood away from the bar, her eyes wide
and terrified. She moved to follow James, hunching her shoulders and
ducking low in his wake.
Darkness filled the pub’s back hall and the staircase leading up to
rental rooms. A moment later, bluish light bloomed as the rear door blasted
open. The four poured out into a tiny courtyard, turning immediately to the
enchanted brick wall that separated Muggle London from Diagon Alley.
But the wall was barely still there. Bricks pattered down from an
enormous, ragged, dragon-sized hole. Beyond this, the dragon herself
loped and careened down the winding wizarding thoroughfare of Diagon
Alley, her wings tearing at eaves, her tail bashing aside signs and awnings.
Witches and wizards leapt into doorways as she thundered past.
Merlin disapparated again, vanishing into a pinpoint of light, this
time leaving Millie behind.
“The circus!” Harry announced, pointing. Beneath the dark sky,
James could just see the peaks of coloured tents and fluttering banners over
a line of nearby gabled roofs. “Stay here!” his father commanded, shooting
him a steely glance. A moment later, he vanished with a ringing crack.
“Like bloody hell I’m staying here,” James said, turning to Millie.
He reached for her hand.
She recoiled from it in surprise, her eyes glassy in the dimness.
“What are you doing!?”
“I’m apparating to the circus!” he said, as if it was the most obvious
thing in the world. “Come on!”
“But I don’t want to go to the circus!” she cried, nearly hysterical
with fear and confusion. “And you don’t know how to apparate yet! I’m…
I’m being the voice of reason!”
“I’ve apparated once before!” he insisted, pushing his hand toward
her again. “Er, sort of.”
“I’m not going!” she said firmly, and stamped her foot. “You’re all
crazy! Do you know that!? Crossing streets is one thing! But this is just…

just…!”
James slumped helplessly, and then gave up on her. He glanced up
again to the fluttering banners and illuminated peaks of the circus tents.
They were barely a quarter mile away. He tried to pinpoint where exactly
they were, calling up a mental map of Wizarding London. He decided,
somewhat haphazardly, that the circus was erected in the square where
Diagon Alley and Sartori Alley intersected. With this picture firmly
established in his mind, he stepped away from Millie, fisted his hands,
squeezed his eyes shut, and flexed the mental muscle that he had last used
when trying to cross a Hogwarts classroom.
There was no Edgar Edgecomb to toss a firecracker at him this
time. He felt the world twang away, unreeling in a blur. Then, just as it had
with his father a minute before, it reasserted itself around him. His feet
struck down on hard stone and he swayed only slightly, sticking out his
arms for balance.
He opened his eyes and looked around. He was standing in the dead
center of the square formed by the intersection of Sartori and Diagon
Alleys. He’d apparated into a fountain, in fact, though one fortunately
drained for the winter. On both sides, enormous tents, striped orange, blue,
and white, stretched up into darkness, their canvas sides fluttering in the
cold wind.
The noise of Norberta’s approach was behind him. The ground
trembled with her pounding footsteps. The air rang with her feverish roar.
James turned on the spot and clambered over the ledge of the empty
fountain, running out of the space between the tents, his wand in his
outstretched hand. At the nearest corner, Gringotts bank loomed, its pillars
reaching high to the marble cornices of its roof. As James looked, a corner
gargoyle broke loose, tumbled end over end, and smashed to bits on the
cobbles below. Norberta barreled around the corner, stepped and slid on the
remains of the gargoyle, then dug in her claws and thundered straight
toward James, her eyes blazing, her jaws open to show her rows of dagger
teeth.
Heddlebun was still clinging to her neck, speaking to her, exploiting
her dragonish nature and driving her to frenzy.
James skidded to a halt as the dragon’s shadow loomed over him.
Scrambling, nearly falling backwards, he began to retreat.
Bolts of red and purple light erupted from the alley behind

Norberta. Merlin and James’ dad, it seemed, were still giving chase, aiming
to stop Norberta’s rampage. Soon, they would have to resort to killing
curses. Avada Kedavra might not be enough to destroy a dragon, James
thought hectically, but Merlin surely knew a spell that would.
Remembering his own wand, James struggled to aim it. He tripped,
fell to the cold cobbles, and felt the stampede of Norberta’s claws closing in
on him. He threw himself onto his back, aimed his wand into the air, and
shouted, “Expeliarmus!”
It was a purely instinctive reaction, culled from his many dueling
sessions in Professor Debellows’ classroom. Norberta had no weapon to be
expelled, of course. And yet, suddenly, her feet dug into the pavement,
grinding over the cobbles as she skidded and slewed to a halt, plowing a
cloud of dust before her.
The great dragon came to rest a dozen feet from James, and
something fell to the square between them. It was small and bony, with
flapping ears and large hands.
It was Heddlebun the elf. She lay where she had fallen, unmoving.
And suddenly James understood: the elf herself had been the
weapon. James’ dueling shot had expelled her from the hapless dragon,
who now hunkered in distressed confusion, huffing the air, looking around
to see where she was.
Merlin and James’s father appeared from the mouth of the alley,
rounding Gringotts bank at a run, wand and staff raised. They paused when
they saw the halted dragon, with James climbing to his feet before it.
“Beware, James!” his father called, wasting no time on chastising
him for his disobedience. “If Norberta smells the male dragon before
Merlin can mesmerize her again…!”
James glanced up. Norberta’s nostrils flared before him. Her goldfoil eyes widened. Her head began to rise on the serpentine length of her
neck, into the light of the circus tents beyond.
Merlin approached from behind the dragon, his staff held high, its
runes glowing with soft golden light. He began to speak to her, his voice
low, the syllables indecipherable yet strangely haunting.
Norberta blinked. Slowly, her head swept to the side, arcing back to
peer at the headmaster in the darkness. The glow of his staff pulsed
hypnotically.
It was working. Norberta was very nearly under Merlin’s

prodigious spell again, undoing the maddening trance that Heddlebun had
spun in her mind.
But then, much to James’ surprise, the ground shook again. He
glanced down, alarmed and confused: Norberta’s claws were still firmly
planted on the cobbles. And yet the ground shook once more, forming an
undeniable, low beat. Something else was moving in the square, something
large enough to make the ground shudder and the marble fountain behind
James rattle like a cupboard of crockery.
A chuff of hot air, redolent of brimstone, blew over James from
behind, fluttering his hair.
He turned slowly, eyes wide.
A second dragon hove out of the shadows between the circus tents,
swaying back and forth like a cobra, its eyes glowing amethyst purple.
James stumbled backward in fear, and then clambered aside,
hurrying to get out from between the two dragons.
Norberta swung her head back, now forgetting Merlin and his
glowing staff. Her eyes locked onto the second dragon and her nostrils
flared. Slowly, she arose from her hunkered crouch. Her tail swayed back
and forth, sweeping low over the cobbles.
The second dragon, clearly the very circus dragon, Montague
Python, that Norberta had been sensing for months, approached her
cautiously, flicking a snakelike tongue from its long, black snout. His body
was rather smaller than hers, sleek and long, but with much larger
diaphanous wings that glinted with oily pearlescence. A sinuous black tail
curled up and then stamped down on the ground, clapping its steely barbed
tip to the cobbles with a ringing clang.
A commotion of movement came from the circus tent as its entrance
flaps were wrestled from inside. A figure clambered out, stumbling nearly
between Montague’s fore legs. It was a large man with an impressively
round belly, clad in an ivory vest and huge shirtsleeves gathered in tight
cuffs with gold buttons. He wore black riding trousers with suspenders
hanging and flopping about his knees.
“Oh bloody Nora,” he said in a high, breathless voice, looking up at
the two dragons as they sniffed each other cautiously, drawing nearer and
nearer, beginning to twine their long necks. “It’s love at first sight, it is!”
Montague raised his tail and clapped it down again, ringing its
barbed tip to the cobbles in what was clearly a sort of mating dance.

James felt his father and Merlin join him at his side. Merlin
lowered his staff to the pavement with a resigned clack. Harry put a hand
on his son’s shoulder, heavily. James sensed in the gesture both cautious
pride and weary rebuke.
The ringmaster—for that’s clearly what he was, Mr. Archibald
Hokus himself —lowered his gaze from the twining dragons and looked
over at James, Harry, and Merlin, his cheeks red and his eyes glistening.
“It’s just a beautiful thing, isn’t it?” he sniffed.
A pound of footsteps and distant voices approached from the mouth
of the nearby alley. James glanced back to see Hagrid loping heavily into
the shadow of the circus camp, where he slowed to a stunned, clumsy halt,
his hands falling limp to his sides, dropping his pink umbrella. His black
eyes stared up at the two dragons and his mouth opened in a gape of
perfect, speechless delight.
“Oh, Norberta!” he said, his voice suddenly choked with happy
tears.
James drew a helpless, exhausted sigh and turned his attention back
to the dragons. They circled each other slowly, sniffing each other,
Montague flicking his purple tongue, Norberta flaring her scaly nostrils.
They growled to each other, making low, purring gurgles deep in their
throats.
James glanced down. Heddlebun still lay where she had fallen, one
limp ear flattened over her face. Cautiously, he approached her, pocketing
his wand as he went. He wondered if she was dead, but then he saw the
hitching rise and fall of her chest.
He felt his father coming alongside as he lowered to one knee over
the elf.
She was sobbing. James sensed that she was lying there not because
she was injured, but because her plan—a last resort borne of abject
desperation—had come to ruin and failure. Hopeless to begin with, now
she was hopeless and without any recourse.
Quietly but firmly, Harry asked, “There were others of your kind in
the alley. How many are in your little elven uprising?”
Heddlebun’s sobbing paused. She lifted one large hand weakly and
pushed her ear away from her face. James expected her to look up with
remorse and defeat, or even fear. Instead, when she lifted her huge eyes to
them, though still thick with tears, her gaze was hard. Her mouth turned

down in a trembling scowl of bitter resentment.
“All of us,” she said in a low, emphatic voice. “The Elven Uprising
is every… single… one.”

20. WORLD IN COLLAPSE
The ship ride back to Hogwarts was a long and solemn affair,
despite the happiness borne of Norberta’s unscheduled union with
Montague Python. Archibald Hokus had insisted that Norberta, being
lamed already with her wounded wing and long accustomed to the
ministrations of humans, join their traveling circus as an accompaniment to
Montague’s act.
“She will revitalize our entire program!” he had proclaimed after
corralling both dragons in the safety of Montague’s paddock. “We’ve
wanted a second dragon for years! Montague’s our star performer, of
course. Now, with Norberta his grand love added to the show, we shall
truly be a wonder of the wizarding world! I can see it now!” He raised his
arms and framed his hands, as if envisioning a tent-sized placard,
“Montague & Norberta! The Beast-Wedding of the Century! Of the
Millennium!”
At Harry’s insistence, Hokus had vowed to have Norberta officially
registered the very following day, as “a rescued orphan beast of origins
unknown” as per Ministry regulations.
In response to this, Hagrid had offered his tearful goodbyes, blowing

his nose prodigiously on a hankie provided by Ron from one of his coat
pockets.
“Keep it, Hagrid,” Ron had said as the half giant offered it limply
back to him. “Think of it as a, er, memento of the night.”
Harry took Heddlebun into custody, magically shackling her with a
lanyard charm as they returned to the Gertrude, much more quickly and
stealthily now that Norberta was no longer part of their entourage. Thus,
less than twenty minutes later, back on board and standing on the gently
rocking bow, James’ dad had quietly consulted with Ron and Hermione,
explaining why he’d returned with a captive house elf in tow rather than a
lovesick dragon, and debating what they should do with her.
“Officially speaking, we’re all home snug in our beds right now,”
Ron reminded them. “We can’t just pop over to the Ministry with a magical
prisoner all of a sudden. Things like that require explanations.”
“Titus is on duty tonight,” Hermione suggested. “He could bring
her in. But can you trust him, Harry?” Things had been better lately
between James’ father and his partner, Titus Hardcastle, but everyone still
remembered that, for a brief time during James’ fourth year, Titus had sided
with his superiors at the Ministry against his boss and friend.
“I can,” Harry answered, “But I won’t. Even if Titus was willing to
guard our secrets, this little elf has no such obligation or concern. More
importantly, I don’t think the Wizengamot would have the slightest clue
what to do with her. There are no laws on the books regarding rogue house
elves, simply because there has never been any need. What she represents
is an all new dilemma for the wizarding world, and one that no one is
prepared to confront. Not with so many other, larger cauldrons to boil at
the moment.”
“Well, we can’t just set her free,” Ron said, frowning.
“Allow me to be her charge,” Merlin suggested from the nearby
shadows, an ominous note in his voice. “After all, she has apparently
corrupted at least one of the elves in the employ of Hogwarts School. I
should very much like to interrogate her about who else might be a part of
her secret cabal.”
Harry shook his head. “I’ve considered that, Headmaster. And it’s a
tempting idea. But our prisoner has already answered that question, at least
as much as I am certain she ever intends to. According to her, all house
elves are part of her cabal. And I have a sinking suspicion that she is telling

the truth. At least, as far as she knows. No, I have another warden in mind
for Miss Heddlebun.”
With that, Harry drew his wand from his pocket and flicked it
lightly toward the sky. “Curatio,” he said quietly, firing a narrow pencilbeam of deep purple sparks high into the sky. The spell emitted an almost
sub-audible chime, like anchor chains clattering in bottomless depths.
“You rang, sir,” a gratingly deep voice suddenly said from directly
behind James. He knew the voice instantly, but couldn’t help jumping on
the spot, startled by the ancient elf’s sudden, noiseless appearance.
“Kreacher,” Hermione said, understanding dawning on her.
“Thank you for coming so quickly, Kreacher,” Harry said, “I have a
task for you, but it’s up to you whether you want to accept it or not.”
James turned to the tiny old elf and watched as a dozen extremely
subtle expressions flitted, almost imperceptibly, across his stony,
curmudgeon face. The elf was no more accustomed to the egalitarian
attitudes of his master now than he was over two decades ago, when he had
first come into Harry Potter’s employ. But he had at least learned that it
was pointless to say so.
“Master’s wish is Kreacher’s command,” he said for possibly the
millionth time, drawing upon a well of stubborn patience that James
thought was likely as inexhaustible, and cold, as space itself.
Harry nodded, “And yet, according to this particular member of
your kind,” he gestured toward the shape of Heddlebun, who sat hunched in
the shadows, her knees clutched to her chest and her head lowered atop
them. “You are part of a secret universal coalition of elven resistance, led,
in part, by she herself.”
Kreacher’s head swiveled so slowly and ponderously that James
thought he could hear the tendons of the elf’s neck creak. “Does she say so,
Master,” he asked in his deep, monotone voice, although it wasn’t really a
question.
“Indeed,” Harry replied, “She says that all members of your kind are
part of a new elven uprising. Thus, my request—which is for you to take
her back to Marble Arch, guard her, and provide her with some suitable
service until a better plan presents itself—may place you in the
uncomfortable position of having to decide between loyalties.”
James knew that Kreacher couldn’t possibly be a part of
Heddlebun’s Elven Uprising. And yet, as the old house elf regarded his

younger, female counterpart, his pinched, inscrutable face as stoic as an
anvil, James had to wonder. Perhaps Kreacher had heard of the Uprising.
Perhaps his loyalties were, if not in question, then at least sympathetic.
Instead of answering directly, Kreacher said, “Master is certain that
Mistress will welcome this new development?”
“I am certain of no such thing,” Harry sighed. “But ‘Mistress’ has
learned to be extremely resilient over the years. I will speak to her myself.
But do, perhaps, try to keep our new guest a secret until morning? Let me
break it to Ginny over tea.”
“So to be clear,” Hermione said carefully, turning from Heddlebun
back to Kreacher. “Is there any truth to what she says?”
Kreacher arched one heavy brow at Hermione, apparently weighing
whether he was required to answer her or not. Then, as if submitting to
Harry’s unspoken urging, he raised his chin stiffly and said, “Kreacher’s
allegiance is always and forever to Harry Potter and the house of Black.”
“Blimey, Harry,” Ron muttered, shaking his head, “you collect stray
house elves the way Rose used to collect dogerpillars in the back garden.”
Without a word, Kreacher took custody of Heddlebun and vanished
away with her, their departure marked only by a faint, airy pop.
Quietly, Hermione asked, “What will you do with her?”
Harry shrugged. “Keep her busy, if nothing else. Especially for
elves, it would seem that idle hands really are the devil’s playthings.”
Hagrid tugged up the Gertrude’s anchor and shortly they were back
underway, returning via the mysterious subterranean rivers that had brought
them there.
Millie fell asleep on the bench next to James as the ship swooped
and rocked its way back. He realized that part of the magic of the journey
lie in the fact that whatever time you conserved on the way there, you
earned back on the return trip, making the final trek seem tiresomely long
and exhausting. He looked aside at Millie where she lay curled on the
bench, rocking obliviously with the motion of the hull, her blonde hair
partially obscuring her face. He was jealous of her fitful sleep, even if it
was rooted in a sort of numb shock. Even now, her brow was creased
faintly, her lips downturned in a worried frown.
“I was wrong,” she’d said to him after boarding the Gertrude again.
“Wrong about all your adventures. They’re only fun in books. Rose can
have them from now on.”

James didn’t argue with her. He’d known she was wrong from the
beginning. And yet the bland finality of her words still gave him a faint
pang. He wanted to say he never asked for deadly and scary adventures,
they just seemed to seek him out. But he knew there was no point. There
was nothing to salvage with Millie. And she was better off away from him.
Whatever it took.
Back at the moonpool, James said goodnight to Hagrid, his dad,
aunt, and uncle, and then walked Millie through the eerily dark and silent
corridors of the school until their paths parted.
She turned to him but didn’t look up at him. “Well. Goodnight,
James.”
“Goodbye, Millie,” he sighed.
She gave a sigh of her own and nodded.
A moment later, she was merely a shadow trudging tiredly away
from him. A moment after that, she was gone around a corner.
James stood and stared at the empty corner for a minute. He had
kissed Millie, and made her giggle, and held her hand, and shared long,
intense gazes with her across classrooms and the library. But in the end,
she couldn’t look him in the eye as they said goodbye. And that, James
thought, too exhausted to feel particularly sad, was probably the story of
most of life’s loves: brief moments of blazing romance, followed by two
people standing over the spitting, cooling coals of their spent passion until
one of them got uncomfortable enough to walk away.
Until the love that mattered. The one to end them all, the one whose
coals would never cool or lose their spark.
This thought offered James no consolation, however. He had found
his one perfect love, the one whose fire would forever burn. And further, he
now knew that she loved him back. Yet even that golden, pristine love
would end with one of them walking away forever, never looking back.
He sighed, long and hard, and the sigh was half shudder.
He didn’t remember walking back to the Gryffindor tower and
falling into his bed. He barely even remembered saying goodbye to Millie.
All he remembered was the feeling of emptiness, of having been, if not
loved, then really, really liked, and then losing that affection forever, with
nothing to replace it with.
It wasn’t a nice feeling. But, as James went into the last, breathless,
portentous weeks of his Hogwarts career, he had an idea that it was possibly

the most grown-up feeling he had ever yet known.
***
Spring settled over Hogwarts with languid extravagance, freshening
the air, melting the snow, unlocking the lake from its pall of ice, and
breathing green buds throughout the Forest and grounds. This was greeted
with renewed excitement and energy by most students, though not by James
himself, who felt the mingled weight of Petra’s impending departure, and
the uncertainty of her dark plan, along with the more general worries about
the continued erosion of the Vow of Secrecy and the magical world in
general.
Part of the reason that Norberta’s appearance in London hadn’t
made greater news, James now knew, was that stories of the breakdown of
wizarding boundaries were becoming increasingly commonplace.
Thousand-year-old safeguards and protections were gradually discovered to
be weakening or broken entirely. This was met with dismay by the
Ministry, with increasingly feverish articles by the wizarding press, and
with secret, dark glee by certain unsavoury denizens of the magical world.
Every morning’s post brought more worrying news:
Werewolves were prowling small Muggle communities with
growing boldness, testing ancient boundary hexes and finding them
threadbare or entirely gone. Mainstream Muggle news outlets mostly
ignored such fantastical stories (for the time being), but tabloid papers and
local news programs picked up the slack, giving breathless, incredulous
reports of attacks by “unusually large and vicious wolves”. Some
eyewitnesses swore that the beasts walked on hind legs like men, and even
used fragments of human speech. Other eyewitnesses, horribly, never lived
to tell their tale. Murders were few and scattered, but horribly violent,
striking terror in rural communities unlike anything they’d known in
modern times.
The news from Romania was possibly even more unsettling. After
hundreds of years of quiet reformation, small communities of vampires
were reportedly renouncing their Pact of Blood Temperance, refusing longestablished voluntary blood depositories and returning instead to ancient

midnight hunting practices. A team of Harriers had been assembled to
confront the leader of one such community, a certain Count Domn Orpheus,
only to be ambushed themselves by the Count and his guard. Three harriers
had been bitten, bled, and then carried by their retreating mates to the
nearest hospital some seventy miles away. There, the three died, only to
reawaken the next morning under the veil of the undead, hissing, befanged,
and starved for blood.
Via the Shard, Zane informed James that his old mate from Bigfoot
House, Wentworth Paddington, who was part vampire himself (though none
would ever guess it), had been taken out of school by his parents in
preparation for moving back to Romania. This was not because they
intended to abandon their own Blood Temperance, but to get out of
America before the rumours of “extranatural interment camps” came true.
The news from within the Giant communities was spotty, but
equally worrisome. Many tribes had retreated from their ancestral
communities, but clumsily, leaving behind copious evidence of their
habitation. Muggle explorers were discovering giant footprints, tribal cave
drawings, and even burial mounds. International magical response teams
were dispatched to the sites to scrub as much evidence as possible, and
obliviators did what they could to erase memories and alter reports. Still,
some leaks of giant-related material had proved impossible to contain. One
Muggle explorer had actually dug up a giant skull from its burial mound
and was displaying the ghastly object (purported to be five feet in diameter
with a weight of nearly five stone) to any and all photographers and
television news cameras. For now, as with the werewolf sightings, these
reports were mainly met with skepticism from major media. But those in
the magical world knew that such fortune couldn’t possibly last forever.
Perhaps most disheartening of all, wizarding thieves had begun
targeting Muggle homes and institutions. Where magical safeguards had
once made it impossible for adult witches and wizards to deliberately use
their powers against Muggle establishments, now petty magical criminals
easily thieved banks, vaults, and wealthy manors, all with increasing
confidence, knowing that the magical community was too occupied to stop
them, and Muggle locks and alarms were no match for their wands.
One particularly audacious heist of the United States gold reserve at
Fort Knox was only thwarted because the American Magical Integration
Bureau had shown the foresight to erect foe-glasses in their secret offices in

that and similarly sensitive locations. The organized gang of witches and
wizards, led, sadly enough, by a certain Luckinbill Fletcher of Herbertshire,
was only temporarily captured. They eluded authorities en route to Fort
Bedlam prison, vowing that next time no “hand-me-down magical trinkets”
would stop them.
As a result, the Ministry of Magic had determined that the Magical
Integration Bureau’s use of physical guards was worthy of consideration.
Thus, as a “temporary safety measure” (or “desperate last resort” according
to Scorpius), thirty particularly essential magical locations around Europe
had been deemed Code Red High-Risk and fortified with twenty-four hour
watchmen.
Hogwarts was one of those thirty.
“We have been kindly asked,” Merlin stated at the official
announcement one Thursday evening at dinner, “that we not refer to our
new watch as ‘guards’, since that term is feared to imply a certain,” he
peered down his nose at a parchment in his hand, “‘antagonistic and/or fearbased response, rather than a mere benevolent vigilance for the welfare of
all, both magical and otherwise.’”
Next to Merlin, albeit a step back, a blocky man in dark brown coat
and beret nodded approvingly. He was the captain of the watch, apparently,
a Mr. Hawtrey. James guessed that he, like many of the watch themselves,
were retired wizards who had volunteered for this service, and showed,
more than anything, the sort of dutiful zealotry that comes mostly from age
and boredom.
A watchtower was quickly and economically erected along the shore
of the lake and rounds were established throughout every hour of the day.
The men of the watch were mostly amiable duffers often distracted from
their duties by the temptation to tell tales, to anyone who would listen, of
their own long-ago days at Hogwarts.
“Back in my time,” one of them regaled James one day between
classes, tapping him in the chest, “If we spoke out of turn, it was the
tongue-screw we got!” He chuffed wheezing laughter at this. “We had real
discipline back then! Not this namby-pamby drivel they coddle you lot
with now.”
The man’s partner, much taller than him, with thin hair slicked black
with pomade, nodded and narrowed one eye. “Argus Filch was a resident
apprentice here in those days. Head-in-the-clouds Filch we called him.

Always writing poetry and painting pictures, he was.”
“All he could do, since a wand was no good in the poor sod’s hand.”
“Hush! I don’t think we’re s’posed to talk about that,” the taller
man chastised. “Filch may be a hopeless dreamer, but he’s got to command
respect somehow…!”
James tried to back away without the men noticing. Ralph tugged
his elbow as the two seemed to fall into a small squabble.
A few of the watchmen, however, were unrelenting in their grim
dedication. They stalked the corridors and grounds with eyes of flint,
apparently feeling empowered to enforce student rules, and even invent new
ones in the name of security. One of these men, a gangly Welshman of
about forty with the constipated face and rigid posture of a born rulefollower, ordered students back from a late spring wade in the lake,
chastising them for crossing the boundary of the school. The same man,
whose name James learned was Royston Brimble, insisted loudly that
Hogsmeade weekends should be curtailed until further notice (a suggestion
that Merlin, fortunately, did not so much as honour with a reply). Later, he
called for the abandonment and “removal or demolition” of Hagrid’s hut on
the grounds that it was “an eyesore and a superfluous extra domicile,
needlessly complicating the scope of watch duties.”
At this recommendation, Hagrid simply smiled with all of his teeth,
clapped the man on the shoulder hard enough to buckle his knees, and said,
“Good luck with that, Mr. Brimble.”
A short time later, fortunately, Brimble was seen beneath the
watchtower being spoken to very carefully by Mr. Hawtrey in his natty
brown beret. Brimble abandoned the matters of Hogsmeade weekends and
Hagrid’s hut, but continued to order and reprimand students at every
possible opportunity, always with blazing eyes and specks of white spittle
in the corners of his mouth.
A sign-up sheet for student volunteers to the watch was posted in
the entrance hall. STAY UP LATE FOR A GOOD CAUSE! the heading ran.
After a week, there were only three names on the parchment. James was
annoyed yet unsurprised to see that the names were Edgar Edgecombe,
Polly Heathrow, and Quincy Ogden.
When he saw the three again, they sported small silver badges on
their robes, carefully polished and prominently displayed. The badges were
tiny shields with the letters J.W. stamped onto them.

“Junior Watch,” Edgecombe said, tapping his badge importantly as
he waited outside a classroom watching others walk past, his eyes
narrowed. “Counts as credit for Muggle studies, it does. Gets me out of
Grenadine’s stupid class.”
“Curious, that,” Sanjay Yadev commented from nearby, “I’ve found
Miss Grenadine’s class to be a lot less stupid without you three in it.”
Several others laughed (including James, passing on his way to
Transfiguration) but Polly Heathrow glared at Sanjay, pushing up to her full
height.
“We’ve been instructed to report any of a whole list of suspicious
behaviours,” she said in her high, nasal voice. “Disrespecting authority is
number twelve. You just might want to tread careful before you end up on
any ‘official watch lists’.”
James turned when he heard this, but Rose caught his elbow even as
he did. “Leave her be,” she muttered. “You don’t have time to start
anything. And besides, Sanjay is quick enough to fight his own battles.”
Indeed, behind them, Sanjay spoke up, “Does the list include being
three proper little gits? If so, I may need to do some reporting of my own.”
Ogden moved to confront Sanjay, but at that moment James’ line of
sight was obscured by passing students. Somewhat regrettably, he turned
back and hurried on to his own class. Rose was right that Sanjay was
clearly capable of handling himself. And at least the trio of little bullies had
turned their attention to someone other than him.
As classes progressed, James confronted for the first time, and with
great unwillingness, the reality that final N.E.W.T. examinations were, in
fact, going to happen, no matter how hard he pretended otherwise. With the
enthusiasm of a man going to the gallows, he began to devote himself to
studying and preparation, thankful for the spontaneous study groups that
began to gather in the library most evenings. Graham, Deirdre, Ralph,
Fiera Hutchins, Fiona Fourcompass, and Trenton Bloch were almost always
there. Often, they would be joined by other seventh years, including Nolan
Beetlebrick, Julian Jackson, Ashley Doone, Patrick McCoy, Millie, and
George Muldoon, creating a large and occasionally boisterous gathering
that often, James noticed with some degree of relief, bordered on the edge
of becoming a football scrum (when they argued vigourously about a
debatable technique) or a kitchen raiding party (when the argument was
over and everyone was feeling restless and peckish). The evening librarian

eventually gave up trying to contain and quiet the group. Long-accustomed
to the ebbs and flows of school life, she simply herded the students into a
large bay-window area far from the main floor. Here, window seats were
covered in cushions and pillows, high curtains and shelves baffled extra
noise, and the rugs probably still bore the biscuit crumbs and soda stains of
decades-past study sessions.
One Monday morning, with the late spring sun blazing down from
the rafters of the Great Hall, James finally found the time and determination
to confront Albus about his interactions with Petra, if for no other reason
than to prove to his brother that he now knew about her plans, too. His
intention was sidetracked, however, when he arrived in the Great Hall and
learned that Albus’ relationship with Chance Jackson had been ended that
weekend, by her choice.
Chance sat in her normal place at the end of the Gryffindor table,
solemn but surrounded by her doting entourage of friends. They cooed over
her and leaned to offer commiserating touches, clearly enjoying the
delicious pathos of her drama. Albus, on the other hand, sat alone in the
darkest corner of the Slytherin table, on the opposite side of the Hall, not
eating breakfast, nor talking, not doing anything much besides glowering at
everything and nothing, his head low between his hunched shoulders.
James decided to approach him anyway, but Albus saw him coming
and hurled himself to his feet, dragging his knapsack with him and slinging
it angrily over one shoulder, stalking toward the door.
“He’s really upset,” Fiera Hutchins observed to Nolan Beetlebrick,
who leaned back to watch as Albus shoved through the double doors.
“That’s what comes of dating outside one’s house,” Beetlebrick
agreed sagely, cocking one eye aside at James. “Nothing but betrayal and
heartbreak.”
James pretended not to hear. Clearly, for reasons that were entirely
his own, Albus had allowed himself to become hopelessly enmeshed with
Chance Jackson, and was sincerely, if angrily, bereft about the ending of
their relationship. James couldn’t bring himself to understand it in the
least. Chance was cute and all, he supposed, but she was hardly worth
jumping off a cliff over. Come to think of it, though, neither was Albus.
Returning to his seat at the Gryffindor table, James decided that he
could wait just a little longer to learn what Albus knew about Petra’s plan,
and whatever part he, Albus, was meant to play in it.

It was fully three weeks after their midnight trip to London on
Hagrid’s blockade runner that James was summoned to Merlin’s office on
what appeared to be disciplinary charges. He got the message from a
smugly gleeful Filch during breakfast on a Thursday morning, just as he
was taking his first bite of sausage.
“The headmaster requires your presence at half-past six this evening
in his office,” the old caretaker growled from behind him, leaning close in a
parody of confidentiality. “Half past six, sharp. And I must say, he didn’t
seem especially pleased about it. Dear me, no.” He sucked his teeth
thoughtfully and shook his head.
Coldness fell over James as he glanced back at Filch, absorbing this
sudden news. Then he turned toward the head table, looking for Merlin
himself. Only he wasn’t there. His high chair in the centre of the table was
empty, his place cleared.
“What’ll that be about, eh?” Ralph asked quietly as they made their
way out of the castle toward Care of Magical Creatures. “Have you been
up to something I don’t know about?”
“Haven’t the faintest idea,” James answered worriedly.
“It’s probably that stupid Night Quidditch,” Ralph nodded soberly to
himself. “You know he’s bound to put a stop to it. He has to, sooner or
later. All the prefects are on the lookout for you lot. Me, too, come to think
of it. I don’t want to do it, but responsibilities is responsibilities.”
“It’s not about Night Quidditch,” James snapped irritably. “And I
really wish you’d lay off about it. It’s just a game. It doesn’t hurt
anybody.”
“It’s breaking curfew, for starters,” Ralph replied. “And it’s
threatening our security nowadays, it is. All of you out there with your
glowing Bludgers and Quaffles and such. And now I’m told you’re using
loads of those ridiculous sport magic spells you picked up last year at
Clutchcudgel. Gravity wells and knucklers and other dotty stuff that’s in no
self-respecting spellbook. What if some Muggle campers happen to see all
that magic and those flying glowing balls from across the lake?”
“That’s the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard,” James hissed, rolling
his eyes. He was quite proud of the addition of sport magic to Night
Quidditch, and still considered himself one of its best practitioners, though
Julian Jackson would be a close second. “Nobody’s going to see us, no
matter what spells we use. Would you come off it, already?”

“I’m Head Boy, James—”
“As if you’d let me forget that for more than thirty seconds.”
“And I’ve got a future to think about. As a Dolohov, I could have a
solid career at the Ministry, or even in the States. But I’ve got to start living
up to it now. And sometimes that means putting duty before friendship.”
“Look, Ralph,” James declared, stopping on the grass and turning on
his friend. “If this is more of this ‘finding the true Ralph’ stuff, I get it. I
really do. But you are dangerously close to crossing a line I don’t think you
really mean to cross. It was one thing when Zane was here to help reign
you in—”
“Reign me in!?”
“But I’m just one person and you’re full steam ahead into…
whatever it is you’re on about. I don’t even know. I want to support you,
Ralph. We’ve been mates since forever. But if you think your duty to that
stupid badge is more important than your friends, well, all I can say is I
guess you’ve finally proved yourself a Slytherin.”
“Whoa,” Graham Warton said, impressed, as he passed the two of
them. “The fangs are out now, aren’t they?”
“Give ‘em hell, James!” Ashley Doone called from some distance
away, walking backwards to watch. Next to her, Patrick McCoy sniggered.
James rolled his eyes and took a step back.
Ralph stood like a statue for a long moment, his cheeks brick red,
his eyes both hurt and defiant. He opened his mouth to reply, but before he
could a girl stepped between them, placing a hand on each one’s chest.
“Shake hands and say sorry,” she said quietly. It was Rose. She
glanced aside at James, and then at Ralph. Neither boy moved.
“Do it,” she said in the same tone of voice. “You both know you
want to. Tensions are high right now and everybody’s at their frayed edge.
But you need each other. And I can’t muster the energy to get between you
both if you go to war. So shake hands and say sorry.”
James drew a long breath through his nose. Rose was right. And
yet a fiercely stubborn urge held him back.
“Sorry,” Ralph said, his eyes lowered but his hand held out.
“Really. You’re right. I’m sorry.”
James blew out the breath he’d been holding and reached to shake
Ralph’s hand, briefly but firmly.
“I’m sorry, too, Ralph. I’m just… you know.”

“You’re worried about Merlin’s summons,” Ralph nodded. “And…
everything else. I know.”
To Rose, James muttered, “Since when did you turn into our mum?”
Rose rolled her eyes, bemused and relieved. “Since you both
proved you need one.”
The rest of the day went by in a fugue of slowly increasing tension.
James had no idea what the summons from Merlin was about. What he did
know was that it was just like the headmaster to make the request first thing
in the morning so James had ten long hours to stew over it. His final class
of the day, Transfiguration with Professor McGonagall, seemed to stretch
into nearly infinite lethargy, each minute taking approximately a year as he
struggled, halfheartedly, to change a China teapot into a half dozen teacups.
McGonagall herself showed off the technique with frustrating ease, tipping
her steaming pot and transforming the spout into a line of six dainty cups,
catching each one deftly as it appeared and setting them on the desk, even
as the teapot emptied both its water and itself into the final receptacle.
James hissed and yanked his hand away, burning his fingers with
hot tea for what felt like the thousandth time, but producing no teacups
from the pot in his hand.
“It’s a matter of confidence, students,” McGonagall instructed
grimly, scrutinizing them over her spectacles. “Pour as if you fully expect
the cup to appear. Any hesitation at all will spoil the magic.”
James shook his head and lifted the teapot again, even as it bubbled
and steamed, magically refilling itself. He sucked his red fingers, then held
out his hand once more, preparing to catch the teacup as it formed from the
tilting spout, and knowing that it would never happen. This, he mused, was
the tricky thing about confidence: the more you tried to force it to happen,
the more elusive it was.
Finally, dinnertime came and went. James barely noticed it, being
far too focused on the appointment afterward. But then, somehow, time
seemed to catch up to him, snapping forward with cruel elasticity, and he
found himself walking toward the rising spiral stairs of the headmaster’s
office, caught once again on the miserable knife edge between wanting to
get it over with as soon as possible and wanting to run away as fast as he
could.
“Potter,” the Gargoyle guard said in its gravel voice, nodding him
onward toward the stairs.

James paused. “Aren’t you going to ask me for the password?”
“Do you know the password?” the gargoyle asked, raising a
suspicious marble eyebrow.
“Um,” James admitted reluctantly, “No, I don’t.”
The gargoyle nodded again, as if satisfied. “But I know you, and
that’s what counts. Passwords can be forgotten or stolen. New times call
for new measures. Now, go on up. He’s expecting you.”
James swallowed hard and turned to the gently rising steps.
Effortlessly, they lifted him and carried him up, around, into darkness, and
then into the mellower, golden light of the headmaster’s antechamber. The
large office door stood open, casting a bar of firelight out onto the waiting
bench and the wall of miscellaneous portraits, paintings, and plaques.
James approached the door, feeling twice as heavy as normal.
It’s just Merlin, he told himself. I’m most of the reason he even
exists in this time and place and isn’t still floating around in the Void of
disapparation. I’m part of the reason he was given the post of headmaster.
He helped me rid the school of that loony Muggle reporter, and I helped
him rid the world of the Gatekeeper. We go back together. We’re friends…
And yet James knew that what Merlin called friendship and what he
called friendship were likely two extremely different things. As different as
the two worlds, a thousand years apart, that formed them both.
As always, the headmaster’s office was crowded to the point of
claustrophobia, filled with trunks and crates, bookshelves and tables, tools,
talismans, and enormous oddities of every imagining, including (but hardly
limited to) the gigantic stuffed alligator that hung from the ceiling, its
glassy black eyes staring down and its hundreds of teeth bared in an
uncomfortably jolly grin.
“Come in, James, and do close the door,” Merlin said easily, not
looking up from his desk, where he seemed to be writing something with
one hand, consulting a large book with the other. “It seems to be a
customary expectation of the age that I offer you a seat. But frankly I prefer
for you to remain standing. Thus, I shall leave the option to your good
judgment.”
James moved cautiously to a space equidistant from the hearth on
his left and the desk in front. The stone floor was warm. The air of the
office was heavy with the sleepy scent of candle wax, old leather, and,
unexpectedly, cocoa. James glanced down. A silver tray sat perched on the

edge of Merlin’s desk, nearly pushed off by a haphazard pile of books. On
the tray, a large stoneware mug of hot chocolate steamed gently. As James
watched, Merlin reached without looking, scooped the mug into his hand,
and sipped a deep draught, finally leaning back in his chair as he did so.
“Ahh,” he said, half-closing his eyes. “You know, James, I’ve gone
in and out, to and fro in this new world. I’ve seen, smelled, and tasted its
million strange discoveries. And I don’t care what the politicians, priests,
and poets say: hot chocolate is the pinnacle of your era. Perhaps any era.”
He breathed the mug’s rich steam, sipped again at its contents, and then,
reluctantly, set the cocoa aside on its tray.
Returning his gaze to James, a speculative look in his eyes, he said,
“You’re probably wondering why I’ve summoned you here.”
“Well,” James said, his voice dry, “Yeah. I mean, yes sir. I
assumed…” He stopped and cleared his throat nervously. “I assumed that I
was in trouble, like.”
“Oh, but you are, Mr. Potter,” the headmaster nodded somberly, and
drew a little sigh. “As headmaster of this school, I would be bereft in my
duties if I did not correct aberrant behaviour by the accepted means. I know
it’s been a month, but do forgive me. I’m a busy man.”
“But,” James blinked, sincerely baffled, “but you said on the boat
that there wouldn’t be any punishment for the whole dragon-in-London
thing!”
“Oh, I truly doubt I said anything that direct. I prize nuance, Mr.
Potter. But you are, in essence, correct. There is no discipline to be meted
out for your failure to control the events of that night. Your lesson, one
might hope, has been learned.”
Behind James, somebody gave a light, peremptory cough. He
turned quickly, in time to see the portrait of Albus Dumbledore, unusually
awake and alert. Dumbledore folded his hands on his lap and looked past
James, staring politely into the middle distance.
“Yes,” Merlin said, drawing attention back to himself. “And yet
there is the small matter of your being out of bed past the accepted time.
For that, I’m afraid I must deduct, let me think… perhaps five house points.
At the headmaster’s words, James fancied he could hear the tiny
clink and clatter of rubies emptying from the Gryffindor vial, far below. He
knew he was imagining it.
“Um,” he said after a long, hopeful pause, “is that all, sir?”

“No, James,” Merlin said, and his façade of unassailable authority
seemed to evaporate, as if it was a robe the huge man put on and took off
whenever it suited him. “It is not. And yet, for the life of me, I find myself
so often at a very unaccustomed loss for how to proceed with you.” He
picked up his cocoa again but did not drink it, merely regarded James
through ribbons of rising steam.
James’ previous nervousness rushed back, and doubled. He gulped.
“Should I be, er, sorry, sir?”
“Where do you think she keeps it?” the huge man asked, his voice
so calm and quiet that it was almost a lion’s purr. “Has she told you? Has
she, perhaps, shown you?”
A thrill of exquisite fear coursed from the crown of James’ head to
the soles of his feet, shaking him where he stood. And he knew: Merlin
was reading him like a book. Merlin knew everything. Merlin couldn’t be
fooled.
He heard his own voice ask, almost automatically, “Where she
keeps what, sir?”
“Her Horcrux,” Merlin answered, and then shrugged vaguely. “Or
the thread itself. Both are equally important to her. Though not quite as
important, I am willing to wager, as this.”
He took one hand away from his mug and held it up. Sparkling
between his thumb and forefinger was Petra’s brooch, the one she had lost
from the stern of the Gwyndemere, and the one that she had refound in the
World Between the Worlds, brought over by her alternate self from another,
darker dimension. James’ eyes widened at the sight of it.
Merlin turned his gaze from James to the brooch in his hand, tilting
his head back to examine its silver and moonstone through his spectacles.
“It was a gift from her father, while she was yet in her mother’s womb. He
was never able to give it to her, sadly. He died in prison.”
“He didn’t die there,” James said before he could stop himself, his
own voice an octave lower than normal. “He was killed there. Murdered
by his guards for secrets they believed he was keeping.”
Merlin nodded, still examining the brooch, turning it this way and
that by the firelight. “The gears of justice are too large not to occasionally
grind up the innocent. Or at least, in this case, the only slightly guilty.”
James opened his mouth to retort, but stopped himself. He
narrowed his eyes as an idea—a near certainty—came into his mind. He

remembered something that Merlin had said to him back during his first
year: nine-tenths of magic happens in the mind. The last tenth is pure and
unadulterated bluster.
Merlin was pulling the same trick that his father had so often used
on him. The same trick that had only recently worked so well on Rose,
getting her to confess nearly everything about their first disastrous trip to
London. The headmaster was pretending to know far more than he did, in
order to lure James into telling him all the rest. Only Merlin, being Merlin,
was infinitely better at it.
“I don’t know where she keeps anything,” James said, reverting to
the headmaster’s initial question. It wasn’t a lie, exactly. It just wasn’t all
of the truth.
“You are very nearly of age now, James,” Merlin said, lowering his
hand and gazing at him again. “Indeed, in the world I once knew, you
would be considered old enough to go off to war, to marry, to own and tend
your own holdings. You are no longer a child, but a man. And this is not
flattery, for it is a terrible responsibility to be a man or a woman, grown and
thrust out from beneath the wing of your parents and teachers. Thus, be
sure that when I ask you about Petra Morganstern—or Morgan, as she now
reluctantly prefers to be called—I do not ask as a guardian to a charge, but
as one responsible citizen to another, with nothing less in the balance than
the fate of worlds.”
His eyes were stern as he spoke, but his voice remained calm, low.
“I believe that you are keeping your own secret council for noble reasons.
Perhaps you mean to assist Morgan or dissuade her using your own unique
influence over her. Perhaps you fear for the lives of those you love if you
draw them into a potentially hopeless confrontation with her. In short, I
trust your motives, James, if not always your judgment.”
Here, Merlin stood behind his desk, leaving the mug steaming on its
corner. James watched him, resisting the urge to speak up, to answer
Merlin’s comments. He desperately wanted to explain everything. There
was nothing more tempting in the moment than to share the burden of
responsibility with Merlin, to be welcomed into his powerful camaraderie
and confidence.
But Merlin couldn’t dissuade or stop Petra. He would die trying.
As much as it pained and saddened James, he remained stubbornly silent,
afraid almost to look the huge sorcerer in the eye, lest he reveal the truth

with his mere gaze.
“I shall do you the service of telling you everything I know, James,”
Merlin said, slowly rounding his desk and approaching the fire. “For via
my diverse arts I have learned much, however frustratingly incomplete.
Petra has identified herself with her dark mirror, the other version of
herself, now murdered and bound to this earth. She believes that only by
assuming Morgan’s place in her original dimension can she reset the
crumbling destinies of our twin worlds. In this, James,” Merlin reached the
fire and turned his gaze sidelong to face him, “Petra is both absolutely
correct, and terribly, fatally mistaken. For there are other forces in play,
powerful forces both terrible and corrupt. They assist Petra, drive her, and
yet they do not share her benevolent motives. I see them not, but I sense
their movement, like shapes underwater, tracing deep ripples on the surface
of causality, undermining all that is true and good.”
“Judith,” James said involuntarily. A chill traced down his spine,
shaking him where he stood.
“And another,” Merlin nodded slowly. They both knew who he
meant, but neither would say it. And this sent another, harder shiver all the
way to James’ heels. For many long years—over two decades—no one had
been afraid to say the name of Voldemort. Why should they? The Dark
Lord had been beaten and killed by his young nemesis, Harry Potter.
But now, the greatest wizard alive, Merlinus Ambrosius himself,
stood with his back to the fire in his own office leaving that old name
unspoken in the air between them. Voldemort was once again He Who
Must Not Be Named. He lived again, if only as a fractured shred in Petra’s
mind, but stronger today than yesterday, and growing ever stronger by the
minute.
Because Petra no longer resisted the perverse whisper of
Voldemort’s influence. She was cultivating it. She was using it, drawing
conviction, and power, and direction from it.
Every child knew the stories of how the Dark Lord’s black magic
worked, back when he was fully alive in power and malevolence: speaking
the villain’s name summoned him.
Now, it was true once again. If either James or Merlin spoke the
name, she would know.
And perhaps she would come.
“There is only one thing that matters in all of this, James,” Merlin

said, turning to face him fully now, regarding him levelly. “Petra’s—
Morgan’s—mission cannot be what it appears as long as the worst villains
in this, or any, earth are driving her to accomplish it. She may believe that
she can harness the power of the bloodline within her while not succumbing
to it. But she grows blinded in exactly the same measure as she grows
powerful. And soon, James, she will not care if she is blinded or not. He
whose soul curses her will turn her completely.”
James shook his head slowly, thoughtfully, now looking up at
Merlin. “No, she won’t. She can’t be. Petra is good. She can resist.”
“She has resisted,” Merlin agreed carefully. “But she stopped doing
so the moment that she made her Horcrux. Now, she has partnered with her
curse. Soon, inevitably, it will consume her.”
James shook his head again and dropped his gaze. He backed up a
step and sank into a nearby chair. “I think… she believes that she’ll be
gone before the voice in her mind can get that sort of control over her.
She’ll be vanished away into Morgan’s original dimension. It won’t matter
anymore.”
“You miss the point, James,” Merlin stated, a note of impatience,
even frustration, edging into his voice. “This is no longer a decision that
can be left up to her. She is deluded beyond reason. The Petra you once
knew is gone already. In her place is the Bloodline. The Crimson Thread.
Morgan. She is corrupted. And as such, she is unable to see that her plan is
rooted in lies. There is no other interpretation. If the Lady of the Lake and
He Who Must Not Be Named are scheming for the success of her plan, then
only terror and misery can come of it. Never hope. Never salvation.”
James was becoming agitated with frustration. “But it makes sense,
though!” He glared down at his open hands, and then snapped them into
fists. “As much as I hate what it means—that she will leave us forever—it
makes sense! The world is falling apart more every day, all because of the
imbalance caused by the stolen Crimson Thread. Morgan was her twin, so
that means Petra is the only one who can replace her and set things back to
rights again.”
“The world is not so simple,” Merlin stated firmly. “I wish that it
were, but it is not, and you are grown enough to know that. The young lady
who was once your friend has embraced an illusion. Her guilt has partnered
with her power to make her vulnerable to the worst of lies, and thus she is
made a pawn for powers that would seek not just our slow degradation, but

our outright destruction.”
James realized, with some dismay, that his frustration was edging
into anger now. He looked up at the headmaster again, boldy. “Everyone
thinks Petra is evil. That she’s the worst witch that ever lived. The world’s
first female Undesirable Number One. And now you think that, too.”
“Evil, no,” Merlin countered, lifting his chin. “But deluded by evil,
yes.”
“You’re all wrong,” James said, firming his jaw. “I know her better
than any of you. I know she’s stronger than you know. Not just in her
powers, but in her heart.”
“Are you willing to stake the balance of the world, and all worlds,
on that confidence?”
James faltered. He glared up at the headmaster still. But he had no
more strong words.
When Merlin spoke again, his voice was very low, deadly serious.
“She makes her attempt soon, James. She and those who have chosen to
assist her. But she will not leave without this.” He held up the moonstone
brooch again. “You were there when I captured it. You already suspect
what I know: that the brooch is her heart and soul, because it means
everything that she has lost. Before she leaves this realm, if indeed that is
possible, she will come for it. I will confront her. And then, what will
happen, will happen. Unless you, James, decide to assist me.”
James was still gazing up into the headmaster’s probing eyes. He
felt wary, and torn, and deeply worried. His voice a near whisper, he asked,
“How could I help you?”
“By telling me who it is that she has called to her side. There are
two that I can sense via my arts, the Ransom and the Architect, but I cannot
name them. Besides the villains who drive and protect her, who are these
two who mean to assist Petra in her misguided, disastrous plan? Tell me so
that I may reason with them. For the time is coming, and it may indeed be
here, when there will be nothing left but fight, blood, and death. Tell me
before it must come to that, James. Only you can do so.”
James’ thoughts reeled. Could Merlin be referring to Odin-Vann
and Albus? Or were there possibly others? What did the mysterious roles
mean, the Ransom and the Architect? And if it was Odin-Vann and Albus,
which one was which?
He drew a deep breath, balanced perfectly on the razor’s edge of

indecision. And then, with a sort of internal collapse of relief, he knew
what he had to do.
It was Merlin, after all.
He met the headmaster’s gaze and said, “It’s—”
Several things happened at once, interrupting him. A voice, harsh
and startling, spoke up from the hearth. A fist pounded on the door,
urgently. And most disconcerting of all, a horn sounded outside the
headmaster’s open window. The noise was low and throbbing, like a note
blown on a ram’s horn, only one of massive size, giving it a deep, bass
resonance.
“Headmaster Merlinus,” the woman’s voice from the floo declared.
“This is Deputy Partridge from the Department of Magical Integrity and
Security calling. Are you there?” Her face, thin and stern with hair pulled
into a merciless bun, shifted in the coals, looking for him.
“I am here, Madame,” Merlin answered quickly, even as he moved
to the door and swept it open. Mr. Brimble, the evening watchman, stood
outside, his eyes wide, his face the colour of putty. He stepped into the
doorframe and glanced around hectically. His eyes alit on James and then
dismissed him, flicking back to the headmaster.
From the floo, the woman from the Ministry said, “There have been
several breaches in temporary magical boundaries this night. We have
incoming reports of unnamed magical species venturing into protected
areas. Hogwarts School is one of them. Initiate Ministry regulation
lockdown protocols until further notice.”
“I shall take whatever precaution the situation dictates, Madame
Partridge,” Merlin replied smoothly. “Just as soon as we ascertain which
magical species has decided to visit us.”
Brimble bounced on his toes, nearly bursting with impatience.
Merlin turned to him, his brow raised inquisitively.
“They pulled down the watchtower, sir!” he said breathlessly.
“Hawtrey and Rheem barely got out before they toppled the whole thing
over into the lake using their ropes and hooks! They’re right furious,
although none of us can understand a word they say! Seems like they think
we were using the tower to spy on them or something!”
“Who, pray tell?” Merlin asked.
“Merpeople, sir!” Brimble said, his eyes bulging further. “They’re
gathered all along the shore, shouting nonsense and brandishing those mad,

three-pronged spear-things at us!”
“I believe the word you are groping for is ‘trident’, Mr. Brimble.”
Merlin suggested.
The horn sounded from beyond the window again, closer now, low
and throaty. The noise chilled James and prickled his hair.
“That is not the horn of merpeople,” the headmaster said, turning
back to Brimble. “That is blown from a golden Graphorn, the traditional
rallying call of—”
“Centaurs, Headmaster,” Partridge concurred from the floo. “We’ve
just received word from remote viewers. The entire eastern congress of
centaurs is on the move. Hogwarts School is either their destination, or in
their path. Evacuation may be imminent.”
“Perhaps let us not leap to extremes,” Merlin suggested with almost
impish calm. As a man accustomed to action, even war, it appeared that
these were precisely the moments he lived for. “Have we any idea what our
guests are seeking?”
“They’re threatening the lot of us with their pointy, er, tridents, sir!”
Brimble exclaimed, his voice climbing into near falsetto range. “I think it’s
bloody well obvious what they want!”
“The centaurs, I mean,” Merlin said, holding up a hand to Brimble.
“The merpeople are waterbound, thus of some lesser concern at the
moment. Yet, the centaurs are not a people to attack without warrant and
reason. Has anyone inquired what they are seeking?”
“This is not the time for diplomacy, Mr. Ambrosius,” Partridge
commanded from the floo. “Initiate lockdown, as protocol demands.
Hundreds of students are in danger.”
“Not unless any of them attack our guests,” Merlin countered
smoothly. “And even then, I expect the centaur sword would be used to
spank rather than gut. These are a patient people. We shall meet with them
as comrades.”
More footsteps echoed heavily up the spiral stairs beyond the door.
A figure plowed into the office, pushing Brimble aside unceremoniously. It
was Hawtrey this time, his face red and clammy with sweat, his chest
heaving from the exertion of having run some distance. His brown beret
was pushed back, revealing his high, balding brow.
“Centaurs, sir,” he wheezed between gasps. “In the courtyard…
Demand palaver with the Pendragon, whatever that is…” He swallowed

and fell against the doorframe, raising one hand to cover his heart. “And
two counselors… of his choosing.”
“Please sit and recover yourself, Mr. Hawtrey,” Merlin instructed,
and then turned to Brimble. “Go and summon Professor McGonagall. She
will surely be found in her quarters at this hour. Have her meet me in the
courtyard within five minutes. We should not keep our guests waiting.
James?” He turned and looked down at James where he still sat, now
perched forward on the edge of his chair.
“Yes sir?”
“You will accompany me as my second counselor.” This did not
seem to be a suggestion.
“Me, sir?”
“I can think of no one else I would prefer. You may consider it
credit toward your, ahem, Junior Auror-in-Training elective. I shall inform
Professor Debellows.”
“Headmaster,” Partridge interrupted sternly, “we have instituted
official protocols for a reason. I insist that—”
“Rest assured, Madame,” Merlin said, turning back to the face in the
coals. “If the outcome of this evening’s palaver requires it, I shall follow
Department regulations to the very jot and tittle.”
“Mr. Ambrosius!” Partridge called stridently, but Merlin was
already stepping toward his open door, passing Hawtrey where he sat
gasping and wheezing on the antechamber bench.
James jumped up from his chair and ran to catch up, leaving the face
in the hearth fuming, both literally and figuratively.
As he passed the portrait of Albus Dumbledore, the old headmaster
offered him a solemn nod. “Courage and prudence, Mr. Potter.”
Next to him, the portrait of Snape rolled its eyes hopelessly.
James ran on, clumping down the spiral steps in pursuit of the
headmaster. He had a sinking sensation that somewhere, somehow, a final
corner had been turned. There was a sense of destinies shifting on the huge,
crushing axes of fate, like a minute hand on a galactic clock ticking one
notch closer to absolute midnight.
It was a deeply unsettling feeling, and yet he was barely aware of it.
He was too caught up in the inertia of things to come; a momentum that he
feared would not let up from that day forward, until the final, ultimate end.

21. DISINTEGRATING PLANS
“Shouldn’t we be meeting atop the Sylvven Tower, sir?” James
suggested as he followed Merlin through the entrance hall. Students milled
in urgently whispering knots, collecting around the main doors and peering
out, some with trepidation, others with nervous excitement. Bright, wide
eyes turned to follow the headmaster as he parted the crowd, walking
straight toward the open doors and the twilight courtyard beyond.
“As I am quite certain that it would be pointless to send you all to
your common rooms,” he declared without breaking his stride, “At least do
respect the confidence and gravity of our guests by staying inside and
quiet. I need not remind you that centaurs are solemn creatures who do not
bear offense lightly.” In a quieter voice, he said to James, “The Sylvven
Tower is indeed the traditional place for meetings such as these, but it was
not built with centaurs in mind. The many stairs would be an injustice and
an insult.”
The air beyond the open doors was still warm with the dying
sunlight, but swirled with capricious night breezes. James stopped on the
top step as Merlin progressed down, slowly, moving to greet his guests with
stately grace.
The courtyard was filled, nearly wall to wall, with centaurs.

James had never seen so many at once, had never imagined there
could be this many gathered in one place. He knew that the eastern
congress of the Forest centaurs had to include more than Firenze, Bane,
Ronan, and the few others he’d met or glimpsed on rare occasions. And yet
the sight before him boggled the mind. Part of his awe was in the sheer
weight of the hundreds of stony gazes, all facing toward the doors in ranks
and rows, corresponding to some secret hierarchy that James couldn’t
fathom. Part of it was the array of weaponry on display—massive bows
and staffs, ornately crafted broadswords and daggers—none wielded, but
held at the ready or worn in creaking belts and leather scabbards. And part
of it was that, for the first time, he was seeing female centaurs. They were
clad just as the men, but with slighter bodies and, if anything, even more
regal bearings, with tapered up-thrust chins and large, grave eyes.
But most of the fearful reverence the colony inspired, however, was
in the rarity of their marching in numbers such as this. The centaurs were
elusive and secret creatures, vastly preferring their own society to that of
man or wizard, and therefore fiercely defending their lands and culture from
curious eyes. Yet here they all were, exuding a sense of aloof, cautious
superiority so thick that it seemed to darken the very air.
James looked for Magorian, their aged leader, but couldn’t find him
in their ranks.
Someone hurried alongside James, and then past him, clacking
down the steps to join Merlin as he neared the leading row of centaurs. It
was professor McGonagall, of course, dressed in a surprising quilted
housecoat with a tartan shawl tight around her shoulders, her peaked hat
wobbling crookedly. She glanced back at him briefly, her eyes sharp, and
nodded him curtly forward. James hurried to join them, coming along on
Merlin’s left side, while McGonagall stood straight on his right.
In unison, she and the headmaster bowed. It was a stiff movement,
bending at the waist, but slow and deliberate. James rushed to mimic their
movement, feeling awkward and woefully conspicuous.
“Hail, noble denizens of the Forest, your domain,” Merlin
announced, straightening. “Is Magorian among you? Or to whom shall I
address tribute?”
“Magorian is no more,” one of the near centaurs answered stiffly.
He was tall even by centaur standards, with grey dappled horse flanks and
deep brown man’s skin from the waist up. His grey hair was loose and

long, hanging about his shoulders in ragged ropes and ribbons. “I am
Jakhar, his successor, and leader of this colony. Pay tribute to me,
Pendragon Merlinus, and bid us welcome, for we come with a warning, and
a promise.”
“Master Jakhar, venerable leader of a noble people,” Merlin
acknowledged with a dip of his chin.
Jakhar’s face grew harder and his eyes narrowed. “Noble we may
be, but people we are not, insofar as your own leaders are concerned. Call
us beasts, for that is the title we prefer, lest we fall under the same category
as the other odious creatures upon whom you’ve bestowed the title of
‘beings’.”
McGonagall replied, “A history lesson we are all quite familiar
with. Clearly you remind us of this distinction for a reason?”
“I do,” Jakhar concurred. “The news in your world surely confirms
what we have divined from the Dance of the Elders. Your mistake in
absorbing the lesser creatures into your society has come to its inevitable
consequence. Hags, vampires, Goblins, and other such vermin have rotted
your culture to its very foundation. And now they threaten to incur and
topple unmagicked human civilization as well.”
“An overstatement, perhaps,” Merlin hedged mildly. “But a concern
that we are striving to address. The Centauri objection notwithstanding,
there are yet many individuals of those species who not only uphold our
laws and society, but who repudiate the actions of their wayward brethren.
The revered Magorian and myself debated this topic at length, and yet even
he, late in his life, understood the error of condemning an entire population
for its worst members.”
“An opinion that he recanted in his final day,” Jakhar bristled,
stamping his forehoof. “The clarity of death brightened his inner eye, and
he saw the truth: a spring that is only half poison will yet kill those who
drink of it. An apple that is only half-rotten will still spoil the lot.
Humanity has failed to guard itself from the poison and rot of lesser
creatures. And now human civilization is as a golden statue with clay feet,
cracked and ready to collapse.”
“This is an ancient debate,” McGonagall declared smoothly, if a bit
wearily, “and one that we shall not satisfy this day. What is your warning,
Master Jakhar? And what is your promise?”
Jakhar regarded McGonagall carefully, and then switched his gaze

to Merlin, and then James. “Our warning is simple and irrevocable, and it
is this: the age of Man is over. Wizardkind may be blind to this truth, but
we Centaurs have observed the spiral of mankind for decades. Your
unmagicked brothers wage war upon each other with ever more terrible
weapons. They grow arrogant on power, drunken on technology, and lazy
on diversion. The circle of their age closes more with every cycle,
devouring itself with increasing speed. We have observed this and shown
forbearance, knowing that such monumental portents require absolute
surety before action. But the signs have culminated. The point of certainty
is past and the time to act has come. Man can no longer be granted the
freedom of self-governance. Thus we, the Centaurs and our allies, will
mount a revolution into the citadels of human rule. We will save them from
themselves. We will eradicate the rot that has beset them in their ignorance,
and grant them the security of wise rule, once and for all, under true and
prudent dominion.”
“You’re going to take over human governments?” James blurted,
unwilling to believe that he’d heard properly.
“It is the only way to balance the collision of destinies,” Jakhar
nodded, peering down at James gravely. “The influence of humanity has
grown too powerful not to drag the rest of us into its own destruction.”
McGonagall’s voice was shrill with restrained anger, “Unstable
humanity may be, but on the verge of destruction they simply are not. We
witches and wizards learned long ago that power does not give one the right
to make decisions on behalf of an independent culture and people.”
“In fact, Madame Professor,” another centaur spoke up, this one the
female who stood to Jakhar’s left, “It is wizardkind’s failure to make
decisions on behalf of lesser peoples that has led to this impending
catastrophe. We Centaurs will not repeat that mistake.”
“How soon?” It was Merlin who asked, his voice as unfailingly
calm and measured as always. “We know that the Centauri do not act
without much planning, proper preparation, and fair warning. We recognize
your warning and ask: how soon do you intend to move upon the Muggle
world and their governments? Let us prepare them for your strength and
manner, that fewer of both sides might be harmed.”
The female centaur blinked at Merlin, and then glanced aside at
Jakhar, who shifted on his hooves, his tail flicking restlessly against his
flanks.

“You misunderstand, Merlinus,” he said, dropping his voice to a
confidential tone. “It is not the Muggle world that we intend to move
upon. The warning is not for you to pass onto them, but for wizardkind
itself.”
James felt a wave of coldness fall over him as he looked up at the
solemn centaur, standing at the head of his ranks and rows of grim warriors.
After a long, breathless pause, Merlin’s voice was somber. “I see.
You intend to move upon the bastions of wizard rule. Because you believe
that we have failed in our duties to humanity as a whole.”
The female centaur raised her chin. “Those whom you call Muggles
are as your charges. It has always been your duty to shield them from
themselves, and from the worst of your own kind. You have done neither.
Your mission cannot be said to have failed, for you never took it up. And
now, the Centauri have no choice but to accept the mantle of responsibility.
We shall establish the rule that you have ignored, and we shall do so first
with you and your people. Your Ministry will submit to us. Your leaders
will be subject to us. And this school,” her eyes sharpened as she
challenged Merlin’s gaze, “shall be our first stronghold.”
Merlin merely nodded, slowly and consideringly. “Your warning is
received with respect,” he said. “And your promise?”
“That not one hair on a single head shall be harmed so long as we
are met with the respect and obeisance that we require.”
Merlin nodded again, even more slowly.
“That is quite a stringent requirement,” McGonagall said, her voice
hushed. “Submission to occupying forces is not something that comes
naturally to most of us.”
“And that is why we offer our warning,” Jakhar replied. “For the
day of our coming is not today. But it is soon. We abhor violence. We
abhor it so strongly that when forced to fight, we do so with the ferocity and
viciousness of conviction, that it may be ended as soon as possible. Those
who stand up to Centaurs do not stand up again. This is the only way to
shorten the time of violence. Do what you must to assure that it does not
come to that.”
Without waiting for a response, Jakhar and his escorts turned, their
hooves clopping on the flagstones, and paced regally back toward the open
courtyard gates. The ranks behind them parted smoothly, forming a silent
thoroughfare for them to pass through.

McGonagall turned to Merlin, her eyes sharp, but said nothing.
Merlin merely stood and watched the departing Centaurs. They filed out
row by row, front to back, funneling through the gate and into the
deepening dusk. When the last of them exited, four abreast, their tails
flicking restlessly and their heads raised, Merlin finally spoke.
“We should have a word with our Mermish friends. I will explain to
them that our watchtower was not intended for them, but that we shall
relocate it out of respect for their concerns.”
“Headmaster,” McGonagall whispered harshly, her gaze still sharp.
“What are we to do? The Centaurs mean to take the school! Is it possible
that they could indeed breach our boundaries if they came in force?”
“Centaurs do not threaten, Professor,” Merlin answered. “If they
state an intention, it behooves us to trust that they have the means to
accomplish it.” He stepped down onto the cobbles and strode for the gate,
apparently heading toward the lake to converse with the Merpeople. James
and McGonagall followed.
“Surely, we must inform the Ministry immediately,” McGonagall
said, her voice low and serious. “This is a terrible matter indeed.”
“As a matter of fact, Professor,” Merlin said as he passed through
the gate and turned toward the lake below, where it glimmered with coppery
sunset light, “I believe we may count our lucky stars.”
James glanced up at the big man, frowning. “Lucky? How in the
world is being invaded by Centaurs lucky?”
“Two reasons. First, because Centaurs measure time in years, not
minutes. It may be that they will attack tomorrow, or in a decades’ time.
Likely, there is ample time to prepare. And second, because they might
indeed have chosen to invade Muggle governments first. With the earth
balanced as precariously as it is, that surely would have tipped the scales of
fate into irreversible collapse. As it is, there is a shred of hope.”
“I daresay I fail to see it,” McGonagall breathed, and shook her
head.
Merlin glanced aside at her, and then at James. Something glinted
in his eye, a grim, puckish twinkle, cracking his façade of stony calm.
Quietly, he said, “That is because you fail to remember the single most
important difference between the non-magical world and our own. Unlike
our Muggle friends, when faced with a magical enemy, we are able to fight
back.”

There was no point in James telling Rose, Ralph, Scorpius, or
anyone else about the Centaur summit, since the entire school had been
watching breathlessly from the open front doors and every surrounding
window. Merlin made an announcement within mere minutes of his
meeting with the Merpeople, broadcasting his voice throughout the school
as everyone trickled to their common rooms, hushed and abuzz with
worrisome chatter.
“Attention students and faculty of Hogwarts,” his voice echoed from
every wall, resonated from each flat surface, as if the entire school had been
converted into a magical sounding board, which it probably had. “As you
are now aware, the Merpeople have been mollified, while our Centaur
friends of the Forbidden Forest have expressed their deep concern about the
welfare of the human world, both its magical and Muggle counterparts.
You may have heard that they believe it will soon be their responsibility to
govern us all, and that they will come in force to impose that governing,
starting here, with this school. You did not misunderstand. But I assure
you: diplomacy will rule the day first. Centaurs are eminently thoughtful
creatures, unruled by emotion. Ministry ambassadors will surely be
dispatched this very night to negotiate with the Centaurs, and those
negotiations shall surely, partly by design, and partly by their very nature,
take a very long time. The day may indeed come when diplomacy fails and
the centaurs invade Hogwarts. But I expect two things when and if that day
comes: you will no longer be here, and we will be equipped to resist them.
Fear not, students. Attend to your studies. The fate of the world may not
rest on you completing your homework, but the fate of your future does.
Let that be your primary focus.”
His voice died away as the students, frozen in place with wide eyes
and alert, listening expressions, all began to move again, turning to each
other, resuming their whispered, nervous conversations, albeit with a new

note of relief in the air. Merlin was the most powerful wizard (and the only
living sorcerer) in the entire magical world. If he was not concerned, then
perhaps the world was not, in fact, about to fall apart around everyone’s
ears.
But as James made his own way up the crowded stairs to the
Gryffindor common room, shouldering past slower moving knots of
urgently chattering students, watched by the unsettled gazes of dozens of
paintings, he thought of Merlin’s comment back during James’ first year.
The last tenth of magic, he had said, was pure and unadulterated bluster.
Merlin couldn’t know how long the centaurs might take to mount
their forces against the school. He couldn’t know if they would even
engage in diplomacy with any Ministry ambassadors. Based on what James
had just heard in the courtyard, he thought it extremely unlikely, in fact.
Diplomacy had stopped the moment that Jakhar and his advisors had turned
tail and stalked away, leading their troops back to the Forest, leaving their
warning and promise ringing in the air behind them.
And of course, James was one of the few people to know that while
Merlin may indeed be the only living sorcerer in the world, there was a
living sorceress out there as well. And who knew what she might do in the
wake of this news. Or even if it was somehow a part of her plan.
The next day was Tuesday, and both of James’ first two classes,
Potions and Muggle Studies, were canceled, replaced with study periods in
the suddenly very crowded library. The rasp of whispers and shuffle of
gossiping students from table to table was nominally overseen by the
librarian and, inexplicably, Professor Revalvier.
“The rest of the teachers are in a sort of war-room meeting, I hear,”
Rose whispered to James, peering low over an open textbook. “The
Ministry is in a complete uproar ever since the news last night. They’re
sending new watchmen, including a few retired Harriers and Aurors. The
teachers hate it, but they’re worried, too. All of them are in a mandatory
emergency response training class with Headmaster Merlinus today.”
Ralph glanced back over his shoulder toward the reference desk.
“So if it’s mandatory, why’s Professor Revalvier sitting it out?”
Rose lowered her voice further. “She’s a pacifist, they say. Won’t
raise a wand against another person or creature if it’s in the name of war.
She may lose her post over it, but she says it’s worth it to set an example to
the students.”

James shook his head in dismay, and then turned back to Rose.
“How do you know all of this stuff?”
“I ask the right people,” Rose shrugged. “It pays off being teacher’s
pet to half a dozen professors. I magic the blackboards clean and shelve
their books and they talk to me. It’s like being a barkeeper.”
By the end of the week, with the Centaurs still biding their time
mysteriously in the Forest, life had returned to what currently passed for
normal. The watchtower had been rebuilt a safe distance from the lake and
the expanded watch now patrolled two at a time throughout all hours of the
day and night. The final Hogsmeade weekend came and went as spring
finally broke its clammy hold over the grounds, granting the first truly
sunny days and leaving flowers and lush grass across the grounds. Study
sessions in the library resumed as N.E.W.T. examinations grew imminent.
The first occurred early, as Mr. Twycross, the Ministry disapparation expert,
concluded his class and prepared to disembark. When James’ examination
time came, he successfully apparated across the classroom, leaving not even
the faintest trace of magical exhaust.
“Excellent form, Mr. Potter,” Twycross nodded curtly, clearly
impressed. “One might well think you had been apparating for years.”
James grinned a little guiltily, thinking of his midnight experience in
Diagon Alley weeks earlier. That night, necessity had been a very good
teacher. By comparison, zapping across the classroom felt about as difficult
as hovering on a broom.
Night Quidditch picked up as the weather improved, with
Gryffindor just barely leading in the standings against team Hufflepuff, led
by the irrepressible Julien Jackson. Jackson, who had initially been
reluctant to allow game magic into the matches, was now equal to James in
her ability to cast gravity wells and bonefuse hexes. Further, she had taken
to studying obscure Clutchcudgel magazines from the United States in
order to learn all new spells, including a nasty version of the Knuckler that
caused a person’s fingers to flex backwards (making it impossible to hold
the clutch or a beater bat) and a ghosting hex that created random duplicates
of the player who cast it, with no way to tell which was the original. She
taught the spells to her teammates, but guarded them vigilantly from being
discovered by any other teams. James was annoyed at her devotion, mostly
because he felt too distracted to make such efforts himself.
For his own part, Ralph continued to chafe at the existence of Night

Quidditch, vowing that if he ever found out when a match was going to
occur, it would be his duty “as Head Boy and a magical citizen” to shut it
down. James rolled his eyes at these proclamations, choosing to believe
that Ralph made them mostly out of duty, not determination. Indeed, with
the watch patrolling the premises twenty-four hours a day, the night
Quidditch teams had been forced to resort to their own guards, warning of
incoming patrols so that the teams could rush away to hiding places in the
grandstands every half hour or so, peering over railings as the watchmen
passed obliviously below.
James thought often of his recent meeting with Merlin, during which
he had almost told the headmaster everything he knew—had only been
prevented from telling, in fact, by the incredible intrusion of both the
Merpeople and the Centaurs. The timing of those events, James mused,
seemed simply too coincidental to be random. And yet he couldn’t imagine
how they could be anything else. No one else knew what he and the
headmaster had been discussing, and even if they had, who could have
orchestrated such a conspiracy with two societies as independent and
irascible as the Merpeople and the Centaurs?
Still, he wondered if it had been a blessing or a curse that he had
been interrupted before telling Merlin the secret of Albus’ and Odin-Vann’s
involvement with Petra—the Ransom and the Architect, according to him.
Sometimes he considered seeking the headmaster out and telling him after
all. Other times, he tried to stay as inconspicuous as possible, hoping that
Merlin would forget about the whole thing.
For his own part, Merlin seemed busier than he ever had been
before. He was constantly in meetings, or bustling from place to place with
members of the watch in tow, or traveling far and wide consulting with
magical administrations and security forces all over Europe. And yet,
somehow, the old sorcerer seemed more engaged and animated than James
had ever known him. It had been a thousand years since Merlin had been
part of a magical war. Perhaps, as dismaying as it might seem, he had sort
of missed it. He was a tactician at heart, after all, a man of action with deep
battle instincts. He may not welcome the coming confrontations, whenever
or however they happened, but he would know how to handle them. Until
then, content with his duties and the competence of his skills, he was
preparing.
Odin-Vann went missing for a solid week. James didn’t know about

it until the young professor’s classes were cancelled one day, and then led
the following few days by Professor Votary as substitute.
“Sick, I am told,” Votary sniffed with a note of disapproval. “And
contagious as well, quarantined in his quarters with no visitors allowed.
Myself, I expect the young man suffers from mere seasonal scumblewort
allergies. Tis the season. But far be it from me to judge another professor’s
ability to function while impaired.” He plunked his carpetbag onto the desk
for emphasis.
Graham leaned aside and whispered, “I hear he’s got dragon pox.
Sneezing his guts out through his ears and every other orifice.”
“You’re disgusting,” Kendra Corner rolled her eyes.
Later that evening, James and Rose stole through the corridors to
Odin-Vann’s door. Sure enough, they could hear the unmistakable sound of
gut-wrenching sneezes from within, the force of them visibly shaking the
old door. Tentatively, Rose knocked.
“Can we get you anything, Professor?”
They waited, but Odin-Vann didn’t respond. A few moments later,
another gusting sneeze rocked the door in its frame. Rose looked up at
James, her face etched with suspicion.
James understood, and a feeling of deep dismay chilled him.
Something was indeed sneezing in Odin-Vann’s quarters, but it wasn’t the
professor. Perhaps it was a recording of some kind, or even an Augurey
trained to repeat the same violent noise randomly. Either way, the professor
was not there. And James had a terrible feeling that he knew where he was.
Odin-Vann was in America, with Petra. They were finally
completing her task, breaking into the Alma Aleron Hall of Archives and
descending to the Vault of Destinies, where the halted Loom waited for
them. They would restore the symbolic crimson thread, using whatever
complicated magic was necessary for the task, and reset the Loom. Then
Petra, the living, breathing Crimson Thread, would be torn from the world
and sent to whatever darker dimension Morgan, the other Petra, had come
from.
“Perhaps it’s already happened?” Rose asked in a whisper.
James shook his head. “We would have sensed it. Wouldn’t we?
The whole point is for this ruddy destiny to be undone and replaced with
our original history. But nothing’s changed. Or, would we even know if it
had?”

Rose merely shrugged. Like him, she was worried. But James was
also conflicted. He wanted to be the one helping Petra during her final
moments in this world, not Odin-Vann. He wanted to look her in the eyes
when she departed her home dimension, and him, forever. He wanted,
more than anything, simply to say goodbye.
But that was not meant to happen, it seemed. When Odin-Vann
returned, one way or another, the deed would be done.
As they hurried back through the darkening corridors, Rose asked,
“But what about Albus? He’s supposed to have some task to perform as
well, isn’t he? Only he’s still here. We saw him an hour ago at dinner,
moping at the end of the Slytherin table, just as tragic and morose as ever.”
James shook his head and shrugged. “Maybe he was just a failsafe.
Maybe she didn’t really need him. Or maybe he can play his part from
here. Who knows?”
James wanted desperately to ask his brother directly, but Albus’
mood had indeed spiraled darker and more reclusive since his breakup with
Chance Jackson. When he did show up at mealtimes, he sat alone, his brow
lowered, his eyes staring sullenly into space. When James approached him,
Albus stalked away, either angry or elusive. Perhaps he knew what James
meant to ask, and had no intention of answering. James could have pursued
his brother, of course, demanding to speak to him. And yet some buried
part of him, quiet but persistent, held him back, whispering that the longer
he didn’t know, the longer the inevitable could be delayed.
The truth came home to James on a Friday, as he hurried along the
corridor toward Divination, his final class of the day. Something small and
hard bounced off the back of his head, startling him so that he nearly
dropped the crystal ball in his hand. He stopped and turned, clapping his
free hand to the back of his head.
On the floor behind him, a small badge lay glinting in the sun. It
was shaped like a shield and engraved with the letters J.W. As he watched,
the badge skittered on the floor, spun around, then shot backwards into the
air. It socked into the waiting hand of Edgar Edgecombe, who stood along
the far wall, his wand in his hand. The boy grinned at James, his eyes
squinting meanly. To his right, Polly Heathrow sniggered into the back of
her hand. Quincy Ogden scowled at James from Edgecombe’s left, his chin
raised challengingly.
“You little—” James began, his face heating with rage. “What is

your problem!?” The words came out much more loudly and forcefully
than he intended, causing students nearby to stop in their tracks, eyes
suddenly keen.
“We didn’t do a thing,” Heathrow said, her nasal voice high and
smug. “You’ve got nargles in the brain, that’s all. They was knocking to
get out.”
Laughing, Edgecombe pinned his badge back onto his robes. “Walk
on, Potter. Before we get annoyed and report the whole lot of your stupid
night Quidditch league to the authorities. See if we don’t.”
James knew the boy was trying to pique him, and knew equally well
that he shouldn’t let him. But he was angry, and fed up, and already feeling
helpless about so many other things. He felt the weight of his wand in his
robes and longed to pull it out, to brandish it at the horrible little git and his
two bratty friends.
“What’s night Quidditch mean to him?” Ogden sneered. “He’s used
to making other people pay for his stupid ideas. Sometimes he even lets
other people die for them.”
James felt a rod of ice jam down his spine at Ogden’s words. He
stood stock still for a moment as every watching eye turned to him. He
opened his mouth to respond, but Heathrow spoke first, raising her shrill
voice in a parody of woe.
“Oh, boo-hoo, my cousin’s dead,” she cried nastily, cocking her
head and drawing a hand up to her thin chest. “Everybody feel sorry for me
because I got my cousin killed off meddling in stuff I had no right to! I’m a
tragic hero, don’t you know! Who else wants to die to prove it?”
James’ hands moved of their own accord. He heard the brittle crack
of the crystal ball as it dropped to the floor and shattered, saw the lunge of
his own wand as he pointed it at Heathrow, then Edgecombe as the boy
burst into braying laughter, blind to James’ furious approach. Only Ogden
saw and responded, whipping his own wand forward and pointing it at
James’ face.
They both fired at the same time—James, a blasting curse; Ogden, a
total body bind—and both spells spat across the space between them,
lighting the walls and faces of the surprised observers with brilliant red and
electric purple.
And at that exact moment, a quake shook the floor, sharp and
sudden. The windows rattled in their frames. The grasses beyond

shuddered, undulating across the grounds. Leaves shivered from the trees
in the Forbidden Forest and birds startled in clouds from their nests.
And neither boy’s spells struck their marks.
As James watched, the curses ground to a halt in mid-air, hovering
and crackling with energy, as if suddenly suspended in jelly.
There was perfect silence apart from the throbbing hum of the
frozen spells. No one had ever seen or felt such a thing before. James had
a moment to wonder if Merlin was involved. He even glanced around,
looking to see if the sorcerer was standing nearby, his staff in his hand,
exerting some sort of deadening force over the boys’ rash curses, causing
the dreadful tremor that had just shaken the world.
The headmaster was nowhere in sight.
Cautiously, gingerly, Sanjey Yadev shouldered through the crowd of
stunned observers, approaching the crackling spells where they hung in
space. He raised his wand to them, less like a magical instrument, and more
like a tree branch with which to poke a spider to see if it’s dead. As the tip
of his wand neared James’ thrumming Confringo spell, it collapsed upon
itself, disintegrating into glowing dust and falling uselessly away.
A split second later, Ogden’s spell did the same.
The silence that followed was breathless with confusion.
And then, distantly, the silence was interrupted by a chorus of
distant yells and howls of surprise.
As a single mass, the crowd of students hurried to the windows
along the corridor wall, peering out into the sunlight. James saw nothing at
first. Then, with a jolt, he spied something falling toward the Quidditch
pitch. It was a person on a broom, tumbling end over end, followed by two
more and a couple of Bludgers, dropping like stones. They dropped past a
fringe of trees, sparing everyone the sight of them crashing to the pitch
below.
“Their brooms gave out,” Graham Warton said in a high,
disbelieving voice. “They were practicing for tomorrow’s match, the
Slytherins were! And their brooms gave out! Did you see it?”
James still had his wand in his hand. He held it up suddenly.
“Lumos,” he commanded in a dry voice.
Nothing happened. His wand protruded pointlessly from his hand,
as dead as a stick.
He looked up from it, dread suddenly filling his chest, and his gaze

met Rose’s as she pushed through the crowd, coming alongside him.
“Look!” Nolan Beetlebrick said suddenly, pointing to the window
again. “Do you see it?”
James pressed his face to the glass again as Rose crowded in next to
him.
It was the greenhouses this time. They were shaking as if in the
teeth of a windstorm, throttling so that their glass panes vibrated and
cracked. Some began to shatter in places, their shards bashed aside by
unfurling leafy tentacles and thorny vines. Whatever plants were capable of
locomotion, they were beating at the glass, straining for release, breaking
through and boiling upward in writhing, twining masses.
Professor Longbottom burst through the door of the centre
greenhouse, his robes torn, green vines twisted about his arms and legs. He
swatted at them, pulled them off and threw them to the ground, stamping on
the writhing bits and producing his wand. He pointed it back at the
greenhouse, seemed to call a spell, and then raised his wand, examining it
in silent surprise as nothing happened.
Little did James know, at that moment, the extent of the event as its
various effects befell the entire world.
In nearby Hogsmeade, a group of three Muggle hikers stumbled into
the High Street, having suddenly encountered an entire mysterious village
where only dense trees and brush had been moments before. They
wandered into the unlocked door of The Three Broomsticks, wide-eyed and
gape-jawed, as Madame Rosemerta called helplessly, “Who are you? You
shouldn’t be here, now! You shouldn’t be here!”
In London, the recently repaired brick wall separating Diagon Alley
from the Muggle city proper cracked, bowed, and then collapsed in a rain of
dust, dry bricks, and fresh mortar. The proprietor of the Leaky Cauldron, an
old wizard with a nose the size and texture of a blood orange, peered out the
rear of his establishment, took one look at the demolished wall, and then
hurried out the front, jamming an old fisherman’s cap onto his head and
leaving a sign swinging on the locked front door: CLOSED UNTIL
FURTHER NOTICE, OR THE END OF THE UNIVERSE, WHICHEVER
COMES FIRST.
In recently reopened and repopulated New York City, thousands of
Muggle denizens looked up from the brief earthquake that had only just
subsided, blinking at the sight of innumerable strange signs and

establishments as they materialized all over and atop the Muggle city, along
with suspended thoroughfares of flying buses and broom-riders, many now
struggling to stay aloft as the world’s magical field flickered disastrously.
One such Muggle, an old cabbie of Pakistani descent with a tweed cap
pressed down over his thick greying hair, sighed and shook his head
wearily. “Not again,” he muttered to himself, as screams of awe and terror
began to rise from the streets all around.
In Philadelphia, where the quake had been worst of all, streets
bulged and windows shattered for blocks in every direction as a tiny, empty
lot surrounded by an old stone wall suddenly expanded, blasting outward to
a size of several square blocks, shoving space and time aside like an
erumpent crowding onto a bus. Vehicles screeched to a halt or rammed into
each other as streets rearranged themselves, entire blocks resituated, street
signs spun, reoriented, and grew entirely new names.
And centred above it all, a sudden storm threw waves of boiling
clouds out over the city, swirling and spiraling down over a single dark
point, forming a sort of metaphysical compass pointing not at true north,
but at the hub upon which the wheel of time and destiny turned—a strange
and ancient device buried deep beneath the stone dome of the Alma Aleron
Hall of Archives.
In the darkness beneath that dome, two hundred feet down,
surrounded by raining grit and groaning stone as terraces and iron stairways
tilted, crumbled, and began to crash in on themselves, two voices called to
each other in shocked alarm.
“Destroyed!?” Petra Morganstern shrieked, her hair grey with dust,
her eyes wild with horror and surprise. “How can the Loom be
destroyed!?”
“Sabotage,” Donofrio Odin-Vann gasped, his face bleeding from a
wide cut across his forehead. He limped to her from the ruin of the Vault
where its brass and crystal leaves lay warped in on themselves, or broken,
or melted to glowing sludge by the force of the magical blast which had just
shaken the entire earth. “Someone, somehow… they knew we were
coming. They set up a technomancic chain reaction. It was triggered the
moment that we approached with the thread and began the spell of
replacing it…”
Behind him, and all around, the walls shook violently. A dull roar
echoed from high above as levels began to collapse down onto each other

like dominoes, disintegrating and crushing thousands of ancient, priceless
relics and their stored memories.
Petra’s eyes sparked with furious, desperate light. “But how is that
even possible! Who could have known! Why would they have risked the
balance of the entire world just to stop me!?”
Odin-Vann grabbed her arm, began to pull her away from the
destroyed Loom. A snarl of frayed threads and torn tapestry smoked from
the ruin. The Loom itself was nothing more than a smouldering frame of
char. “It doesn’t matter! Not now! We must go before the entire place
comes down on our heads!”
“No!” Petra cried in fury, immobile as stone, her eyes steaming like
dry ice. “It can’t be finished! I cannot be stopped!”
“There is another way!” Odin-Vann shouted, shaking her and
making her look at his face. “It will cost much, but there is one final option
that I never told you about! A last, ultimate resort! But only if we leave
now!”
Petra glared at him, seemed to tower over him, her eyes glowing
orbs of rage. And then, with a shaking exhale, the blinding glare fell away
and she was just a young woman again, shaking and dirty and bleeding
from a half dozen ragged scratches. Trembling, she asked, “There’s still
one other way?”
“A terrible way,” Odin-Vann admitted reluctantly, palming blood
from his face. “An unspeakable way. A path to ripping open dimensions
that no one has ever attempted before because it is only one way, and the
cost will be great. But if we leave this plane now, Petra… perhaps we can
perform it.”
In a smaller, eerily girlish voice, she asked, “Can we capture back
my father’s brooch before we do?”
Odin-Vann cringed as more of the edifice began to cave in behind
him. “We will do what must,” he rasped urgently. “But we have to leave
this very second. Your Horcrux may save you. But this place is about to
kill me permanently.”
The Archive began to sink all around them. Every surface blurred
and tilted, shattered and screeched out of true. The death throe of the
subterranean edifice was a sustained roar, growing, shaking the very air.
Petra took Odin-Vann’s hand. Behind her, space tore open in a
blinding fracture, forming a rough doorway into a calmer place, a sunny

gazebo with the flicker of water behind it. She turned to the rift, knowing it
would be there, and stepped through, taking the young man with her.
Far above, the Archive’s dome gave way. Its surrounding pillars
tilted inward, falling ponderously into the massive pit below even as a
volcano of dust and grit exploded up out of it, reaching to the boil of
bruised clouds high above.
And with that, the deed that had begun four years earlier finally
completed itself: the wheel of destiny finally, ultimately, ground to a
complete and fatal halt.
In the Alma Aleron medical college, an old Cajun woman sat up in
the chair next to her bed. For the first time in years, Madame Delacroix’s
mind came back into malignant focus, as sharp and wicked as ever. She
turned her blind gaze toward the tiny, barred window and the boil of clouds
above, and a slow, helpless grin spread over her face, showing all of her
crooked yellow teeth.
In the room directly above hers, Nastasia Hendricks—or what
remained of her, still wasting away in the years since her lighter half was
killed—bolted upright in her bed, her mad eyes blazing with alertness. She
unhinged her jaw and belted a scream of laughter, clawed at her face, even
as her eyes filled with tears and rolled, both gleeful and horrified in equal
measures.
As the destruction of the Archive subsided, Alma Aleron’s timelock
tremored back into being and reasserted itself. The lot and its stone wall
sprang back to its original tiny shape, sucking the city of Philadelphia in
around it, shattering more windows, unbuckling the unruly streets, and
leaving stunned Philadelphians dizzy, blinking, and dumbfounded.
The magical city of New Amsterdam vanished away again,
swallowed back up by its reinforced new secrecy field. The old Pakistani
cabbie stood inside the open door of his yellow taxi, looking around as
stunned observers frowned, speechlessly asking each other if all those
strange sights had really been there, or if they had been merely another
mass delusion.
The cab rocked as a man dropped into the back seat, slamming the
door behind him. The Pakistani cabbie leaned and glanced into the rear of
his car. There, a thin man in a trench coat and an old fedora hat met his
gaze, his face tense but composed.
“I’ll pay you a hundred simoleans to get us out of the city as fast as

this boat can roll,” he said, holding up a thin sheaf of bills.
“Which direction?” the cabbie asked, a little breathlessly.
“Any direction,” Marshall Parris answered. “And if you’re smart,
my friend, you won’t come back afterward.”
An ocean away, behind the Leaky Cauldron, the pile of broken
bricks shuddered, vibrated, and with some difficulty, began to reassemble
itself into a wall, once again, for the last time, closing off Diagon Alley
from prying Muggle eyes.
Hogsmeade shimmered and vanished away into unplottability again,
leaving the three hikers dazzled and confused, having only moments before
been arguing loudly with Madame Rosemerta about the use of her
apparently nonexistent telephone. Now, they stood cramped in a thicket so
dense that it seemed to physically force them back, stumbling, scratched
with nasty thorns and briers.
And in the Hogwarts greenhouses, the maddened plants began to
settle, withdrawing slowly, retracting their vines in sheepish curls.
Dangling in James’ stunned hand, his wand suddenly and silently
burst alight, shining with the Lumos spell he had called only moments
before. Stunned and deeply worried, he raised his wand and looked at it.
Rose raised her eyes from the wand in his hands to his face.
“What… was that?” she asked in a bare whisper, nearly mouthing the
words.
James weakly shook his head. He had no idea, although he would
know the truth soon enough. For now, he simply had a deeply sinking
sense that, whatever it was that had just happened, it was the beginning of
the ultimate end.
And in that, of course, he was sadly correct.

22. THE END OF THE BEGINNING
Professor Odin-Vann didn’t return that night, or at all on Saturday.
James, Rose, and Ralph finally grew impatient on Sunday afternoon
and knocked on his door, but to no avail. The sound of sneezing had
stopped from within—either the recording had worn out or the trained
mimicking beast had finally grown bored and either given up or escaped.
“Maybe he’s asleep,” Ralph whispered, listening close to the door,
but Rose shook her head.
“There’s nobody in there. You can tell by the silence of it. He’s not
returned yet.”
As they wended their way disconsolately back through the weekend
silent corridors, passing through sunbeams dense with floating motes of
dust, James asked, “It couldn’t have worked. Whatever he and Petra tried, it
must have failed. Right?”
Rose shrugged and sighed. Uncharacteristically, she had no
hypothesis or comment whatsoever.
The Daily Prophet weekend edition called the earthquake a

“temporary shift in magical polarities”, quoting a technomancy professor
from the wizarding university in Warsaw. “These things happen with
cosmic regularity, though in cycles of decades or centuries, thus few alive
experience more than one such event. There is nothing to be concerned
about now that the moment has passed.”
The rest of the newspaper had been filled with stories of the effects
of the quake, most fairly minor, but a few with serious consequences. A
few houses and buildings had collapsed, not from the tremor itself, but from
the brief interruption of magical force, breaking the spells that had kept the
ramshackle old structures intact and upright. James mused that the Burrow
probably would have been one such casualty if Merlin had not shored it up
himself, being part owner and occasional resident. Other stories were
variously bizarre or inexplicable. A wizarding zoo in Russia was suddenly
overrun by freed beasts when its magical locks failed. Similarly, the
American wizarding prison, Fort Bedlam, saw the escape of several inmates
when their unplottable exercise yard suddenly burst out into the Muggle
city of Phoenix, Arizona, appearing right in the centre of a busy Muggle
park. Elsewhere, a wizarding warehouse full of crated vials of Floo powder
mysteriously exploded, igniting the thousands of vials and thus sending bits
of burning crate shooting like fireworks out of hundreds of random hearths
all around Wales. One such Floo misfire lit a cottage on fire, burning it and
a nearby barn to the ground. Thousands of injuries were reported
worldwide, and, tragically, more than a dozen deaths, most from failed
brooms during high altitude flights.
“Professor Jackson says it was no normal event, no matter what the
papers say,” Zane proclaimed seriously from the Shard later that afternoon.
“There was an assembly in the theater about it and he told us everything.
Basically, all the magic in the world is tied together in a huge invisible
field, kind of like the magnetic poles of the earth. Something broke the
field for a few seconds, completely disrupted it, like a huge hand flipping a
switch, turning off magic for a few seconds. It came back on, but just
barely. And nobody knows how long it’s going to last now, or how strong it
will continue to be.”
“But what caused it?” James asked, keeping his voice low and
leaning close to the Shard. “Was it Petra and Odin-Vann? Did they succeed
in their plan?”
“I don’t know if it was them,” Zane admitted with a shake of his

head. “I haven’t heard a peep from either of them. But if it was them, it
didn’t work, and that’s the understatement of the century. The Archive’s
been completely destroyed. The Loom is gone, no more than a pile of ash
buried under a hundred tons of dirt and stone. Nobody knows for sure what
caused it. But there’s no repairing it.”
Rose crowded over James’ shoulder where they huddled in a corner
of the common room. Awed and frightened, she asked, “What does it
mean? The Loom was the destiny of the whole world! How can it be
destroyed?”
“Well, technically, the tapestry in the Loom was our destiny,” Zane
shrugged vaguely in the mirror glass, “The Loom was just the machine
recording it. And the Vault was protecting the whole kit and caboodle. For
all the good it did. Point is, the Loom had been shut down ever since Judith
broke into the Vault back in our third year and stole the crimson thread,
bringing Morgan here. But at least there was always the possibility that it
could be started up again if the thread was somehow put back, and some
version of Morgan sent back to her own destiny. That’s what’s been
keeping things together in our world, although less and less every day.
Now…” He raised both hands, palms up, in a helpless gesture.
“But…” Ralph said slowly, “We’re all still here. I mean, right? So
the world’s destiny can’t be really ended. Can it?”
Zane looked grave. “Professor Jackson says that the Loom was like
the load-bearing wall in a house. Cut it down and the house may still stand
for awhile out of sheer habit, but slam the wrong door or step on the wrong
creaky floorboard, and boom. The whole place comes down forever. And
he means forever forever.”
James shook his head fretfully. “But Petra was so certain it would
work. What could have happened?”
Zane didn’t know, and no one else had the slightest guess.
As the evening wore on and the sun set on Sunday night, James
found himself nearly mad with worry and confusion. In a moment of
desperate inspiration, he leapt from his seat in the common room and
tramped up the steps to his dormitory, Ralph and Scorpius following
curiously behind.
“What are you about?” Ralph asked, frowning as James bent and
heaved open his trunk.
Scorpius sat heavily on his own bed. “I think the stress has finally

cracked him. I knew it was bound to eventually.”
James ignored them. Leaning over his trunk, he rooted inside,
raking his hand through piles of laundry, wrinkled parchments, musty
books, his new dress robes still wrapped in paper, some ratty and bent
quills, his old trainers, his spare spectacles, and a surprising array of
miscellany. Hectically, he tossed handfuls of random contents behind him,
digging deeper into the recesses of the trunk.
“Where is it,” he groused urgently to himself, his voice muffled in
the depths. “I almost always carry it with me. The one time it might be
really useful…”
Ralph approached tentatively and knelt down next to the trunk. A
little worriedly, he asked, “What? What are you looking for?”
“Ah-ha!” James suddenly cried, leaning back and brandishing
something in his upraised hand.
Ralph peered at it, still frowning. “What is it? Looks like an old
Winkle.”
James didn’t answer. Scooting back and pushing aside a pile of
miss-matched socks and old arithmancy notes, he put the tiny parcel of
paper down onto the floor. Sitting back up, he scrambled to produce his
wand, then pointed it at the parchment and uttered a short, breathless spell.
With a brief flash, the parcel of paper sprang open like an origami
flower, blossoming into a sheaf of creased old parchments, covered in
masses of scrawled handwriting.
Scorpius slid from his bed and moved to join Ralph and James, who
leaned over the parchment, frowning with concentration.
James shook his head and squinted at the parchments. Wand still in
hand, he raised it and said, “Lumos!” The wand lit, illuminating the old
parchment with unearthly clarity. As always, Petra’s handwriting covered
the pages, but now it was so hectic and dense, so scratched out and
scribbled over, that it was a virtual ink-blot of chaos.
In a low, awed voice, Ralph asked again, “What is it?”
“It’s Petra’s dream story,” James answered, distracted. He reached
and flipped over the top parchment. The backside was also covered with
scrawled words and sentences, built up to a nonsensical strew, as was the
page beneath. Almost nothing was legible.
“Her… what?” Ralph quavered.
James blinked and remembered that he had never shown anyone

Petra’s dream story before. He had told them about it, but for some reason
he’d never shown them. It had been his and Petra’s shared secret. Through
it, she had sent him private messages on occasion, usually when he most
needed to hear from her. At other times, the pages had offered a glimpse
into the sometimes complicated and feverish world of her thoughts.
But it had never looked like this before. This was like a love letter
to insanity. The scribbled words seemed to crawl over each other, pulsing
with their own insectile life.
Without answering Ralph, James reached and scooped the
parchments together again, shuffling them back into a stack and folding
them over, quickly hiding their scribbled contents. The parchment crackled
like dry leaves, suddenly icy cold. James could feel it on the pages
themselves, turning the edges brittle and chilling his fingers.
“Potter,” Scorpius said, raising his chin.
“I don’t want to hear it,” James said quickly, folding the dream story
again, roughly, so that the old pages crinkled and tore. “It’s nothing.
There’s nothing to see. I thought… maybe…”
“Potter,” Scorpius said again, and then pointed to the floor where the
dream story had rested moments earlier. “Is that also yours?”
James looked aside at Scorpius, blinking rapidly and hugging the
sheaf of Petra’s old parchments to his chest, feeling the cold of them
seeping through his shirt. For a moment he didn’t register what the boy had
asked him, but then he followed the direction of Scorpius’ pointing finger.
On the floor before James’ knees, between an old puking pastille
and a dried out inkpot, was another piece of parchment. This one was even
older than the dream story, torn from a larger sheet, frayed and creased from
its long sojourn in the bowels of James’ trunk. Three words were written
on the parchment, scrawled in James’ own hand.
He didn’t remember the note at first. And then, in a blink of
memory, it flooded back to him. It had been during his second year that he
had had the dream—a nightmare, in fact. Shreds of it flickered before his
mind’s eye: Albus with a young woman, standing in a graveyard, his
grandparents’ graves leaning nearby; the Dark Mark exploding into the sky
overhead, shot from Albus’ wand in the young woman’s hand, lighting the
cemetery with its eerie green glow; James himself appearing out of thin air,
apparating with alarm in his suddenly older voice, warning Albus and his
companion that it didn’t have to be like this, that others were coming, and

that they wouldn’t waste time with words…
Only now, thinking back on the dream five years later, James fully
understood: the young woman in the graveyard was Petra. Of course she
was. He just hadn’t known it then, because he hadn’t yet discovered that
Petra was the Bloodline. Or the Crimson Thread.
He looked down at the old note.
When he had awoken from the dream, he had gotten up from his bed
and, compelled by a sense of phantom, inexplicable resolve, penned those
three words on a scrap of spare parchment. He didn’t know why, not then
and not now. He had only known that the dream had demanded it
somehow. He had only believed that someday, somehow, the words would
mean something.
He looked up at Scorpius again. Scorpius wasn’t looking at the
note, but at James, his eyes narrowed.
“I’ve always wondered,” the blond boy said, as if musing aloud.
“Were you sleepwalking when you wrote that? Or would you remember it
again when you came across it?”
James felt suddenly exhausted, almost as if he had been hollowed
out of all emotion. He merely shook his head at Scorpius, who had clearly
observed him writing the note years earlier. “Both, maybe. I didn’t
remember writing it until now. I don’t even know why I did. It doesn’t
mean anything. It’s just a line from the play.”
Ralph leaned over the note and read it. “The play? You mean The
Triumvirate?”
James shrugged. “We were putting it on that year. For Muggle
Studies. I was playing Treus, remember? It’s just one of my lines.”
Ralph picked up the old note and examined it critically. On it, the
ink had dried to a brackish brown, the color of congealed blood. James
looked at it in Ralph’s hand and then read the words again, this time aloud.
“Beware… foul Donovan.”
Ralph looked up at him, his brow knitted. He balled the note in his
hands and shrugged impatiently. “It’s nothing. Just an old script cheatsheet, right? What was that other thing?” He nodded meaningfully at the
dream story where James still held it folded against his chest.
James shook himself, then reached and stuffed the scribbled
parchments back into his trunk. “Also nothing,” he sighed harshly. “I
thought it might give us some news, but it doesn’t. It’s useless, just like

everything else.”
Ralph pushed himself up from his knees, clearly preparing to
protest, but at that moment a sound of running feet echoed up the nearby
stairwell. Graham Warton appeared there, leaning in through the door and
looking slightly put-out.
“Rose Weasley says you lot need to come right now,” he
announced. “She says he’s come back, and he needs your help. Whatever
the bloody hell that means.”
James jumped anxiously to his feet, slamming his trunk as he went,
and joined Scorpius and Ralph as they clambered past Graham, leaving him
staring after them in annoyed confusion.
“And you can tell Weasley that I’m not your bleedin’ secretary!” he
called after them.
A moment later, shaking his head, Graham tromped back down after
them.
Unseen in the now empty dormitory, a ribbon of white vapor snaked
from beneath the lid of James’ trunk. Inside, the dream story steamed with
cold, sizzling faintly as it chilled to absolute zero, freezing the socks and
jeans all around it, cracking the glass in James’ spare spectacles. Then,
with a final, brittle hiss, the pages disintegrated into films of icy ash and fell
apart, sifting into bone-white dust.
And far, far away, under the darkness of a cloudy night sky, a cold
wind at her back, buffeting her dark hair, Petra relaxed her fists and opened
her eyes. She sighed in mingled resolve and worry.
“James,” she whispered. “Please, James… stay away.”

Odin-Vann, Rose informed them as they hurried through the
corridors, was in the subterranean moonpool, watching the door and waiting
for them. He had somehow managed to send word to her via her Protean
duck, even though he didn’t have a duck of his own. James, Scorpius,

Rose, and Ralph slowed to a breathless stop as they joined the young
professor, clambering through the door into the cool darkness of the
underground lake. He closed the door immediately behind them, and then
stood back and pointed at it with his wand. Without speaking a word, his
wand spat an arc of electric pink at the lock, which clacked and latched
firmly, presumably until he cast the unlocking charm. James had a moment
to muse once again about the professor’s sudden prodigious skill with his
wand, after his earlier (and apparently infamous) magical impotence under
stress. Now, he handled his wand with utmost confidence, and, perhaps
even more impressively, with mostly non-verbal spells.
When Odin-Vann turned back from the door, however, James’ eyes
widened. Dirt and blood stained the professor’s face like a mask. His eyes
were haunted, sunken and wild in their sockets. His clothing was torn,
partially burned, and grey with gritty dust. He paused, noting the students’
shocked expressions, then made a conscious effort to calm his features. He
raised his left hand, took a step toward them, and nearly collapsed before
Rose and James caught him, one under each arm.
“Professor!” Rose cried, “What happened!? Are you OK? Should
we go for Madame Curio?”
“No!” Odin-Vann barked, gasping in pain as his knees buckled.
“No, I’m all right. It looks worse than it is, I promise. And there are far
more important matters at hand than my wellbeing. I need your help. Or,
rather, Petra does. Now more than ever.”
Ralph’s voice was stoic, almost cold, as he crossed his arms and
cocked his head. “What happened?” he demanded firmly. “What did you
do? Tell us before we agree to any more help.”
“Ralph!” Rose scolded him loudly. “What’s wrong with you!? He’s
hurt, can’t you see?”
“He’s bleeding and dirty, I’ll give you that,” Ralph countered. “But
he somehow survived the destruction of Alma Aleron’s Archive, and the
Loom in the Vault of Destinies. He’s responsible for what happened. I, for
one, am feeling far more inclined to turn him over to Merlin and the Watch
than to help him. What’s he going to destroy next, eh? What’s his newest
brilliant idea?”
“Ralph!” James said, sudden anger burning his cheeks, but Scorpius
overrode him, his drawling voice sounding almost bored.
“Deedle is right,” he commented, and then caught himself and

turned to Ralph. “Sorry. Dolohov, is right.”
“Thank you,” Ralph sighed. He hadn’t drawn his wand, but James
could see that his hands were itching to do so.
Odin-Vann seemed to regain his footing and his strength. He
straightened his robes and nodded at Ralph. “You’re right. I’m sorry for
rushing you. It’s been…” He laughed drily. It was a short, somewhat mad
sound. “It’s been a strange few days for me. But I can’t blame you for
being extremely suspicious. I would be as well. I shall tell you everything
you wish to know, if I can. And yet I cannot emphasize enough, I fear, that
time is very much now our enemy.”
Ralph nodded to himself and firmed his jaw. “Fine,” he said,
exhaling harshly. “Start by telling us exactly what happened on Friday
afternoon.”
Odin-Vann looked up at Ralph, meeting his eyes with impatience
and desperation etched onto his face, but then, with a force of apparently
Herculean effort, he calmed himself again. “Very well. But let us go to the
ship. It is our destination, at any rate. If you hear my short tale and decide
to help, then we shall embark immediately. If not…” He shrugged and
shook his head, “Then you are free to return to whatever remains of our
lives.”
“Hey guys!” a voice called from the vicinity of Hagrid’s ship where
it bobbed on the dark waves. James turned to look back, surprised. He
recognized the voice and, even in his distress, couldn’t help smiling. The
figure of Zane Walker stood on the deck of the Gertrude, his hands cupped
to his mouth as he called, “You all gonna stand there kibitzing all night?
I’m starting to feel a little left out.”
“Petra asked for him as well,” Odin-Vann sighed, turning back from
the ship. “And she brought him here. The same way that she brought me
back. By opening space like a door. She can do that now. She can do…
well, just about anything.”
“Except return the crimson thread,” James commented pointedly as
the crew began to hurry down to the waiting gangplank.
“No,” Odin-Vann agreed, limping as he walked. “Opening a path to
the right dimension is beyond even her powers. For that… she will need all
of us.”
The group’s footsteps clumped and clanked up the gangplank to the
deck of the Gertrude, where Zane greeted everyone with his irrepressible

grin and a hearty handshake, as if he was a cruise director welcoming a
gaggle of tourists. Above them all, the inverted mirror of the Black Lake
hung precipitously, clapping its own waves and dropping cool mist.
“Let us sit,” Odin-Vann said, and James could hear the exhaustion in
his voice. “Just here, on the deck. I don’t have it in me to go below. This
won’t take long, I hope.”
James hunkered down along the outside railing and felt the gentle
roll and dip of the ship beneath him. Odin-Vann sank to an awkward sitting
position against the wheelhouse, while the others formed a rough circle.
“Petra found me in my dormitory,” Zane admitted quietly to James.
“Didn’t knock or anything. Just stepped right out of a black hole and onto
my fake yeti-skin rug. I about peed my pants, and that’s saying something.
We Zombies pride ourselves in expecting the unexpected.”
“What did she say?” James asked.
“She said that time was short and you lot would need me to do what
needed to be done,” he answered with a shrug. “And that’s pretty much
word-for-word. She was in a major hurry.”
“So what needs to be done?” Ralph asked, turning back to OdinVann.
The young professor shook his head wearily. “With the Loom
destroyed, there’s only one more chance to set everything right,” he
answered. “One last way to replace Morgan with Petra and reset the
balance. But it will take all of us. Petra plays the most important part, and
it will cost her everything, a higher price than I am willing to admit, in fact.
But without us—without you lot—there’s no hope whatsoever.”
Ralph asked again, his eyes narrowed, “What did you do?”
“Someone sabotaged us,” Odin-Vann answered flatly, meeting
Ralph’s accusing stare. “I had prepared so carefully, so thoroughly. I was
ready for anything that might go wrong with actually restarting the Loom
and replacing the thread. The spellwork was perfect. But we never even
got a chance to try it. The moment we approached, we triggered
something. A boundary hex of some kind, attuned either to Petra, or the
thread itself, or both. The Vault contracted like a fist. It didn’t crush the
Loom—that device was far too magical to be destroyed by brute strength.
But it compressed its power, condensed it with titanic force, until it simply
combusted. The Loom consumed itself with the blinding singularity of its
own compressed energy, and the Vault exploded. The repercussions

demolished the Archive and ruptured the magical fabric of the entire world.
But worst of all, it halted the inertia of our dying destiny entirely. There is
nothing supporting us anymore. No fate. No purpose. No providence, or
luck, or fortune. We are untethered from any intelligible directing force
whatsoever. If we don’t succeed with this last, final chance… there may be
no world for us to come back to.”
“But…” Rose said, her voice low with awed worry, “What can Petra
do? Where can she go now to accomplish her task?”
“There is only one place,” Odin-Vann acknowledged, dropping his
eyes to the deck between them. “One place where decisions still matter,
where destiny can play its part.”
Scorpius seemed dubious. “And where is that?”
“The past,” Odin-Vann said firmly, and looked up at Scorpius
without raising his head.
Ralph frowned. “The past? What do you mean? Are you talking
about… Time Turners?”
Rose shook her head. “Time Turners can’t change history,” she said
tiredly, glancing from Ralph to Odin-Vann. “At least, not major history.
That’s their fatal flaw. The past has a sort of inertia. The bigger the event,
and the longer ago it happened, the more it will find a way to keep
happening, no matter what you do in the past to try to change it. Besides, a
Time Turner is a personal device. Go back in time and walk a mile in any
direction, you’ll stumble right out of its influence and back into the present.
Right, Professor?”
“Time Turners are for reliving short moments in the recent past, by
one or two people, in a small vicinity,” Odin-Vann agreed unhappily.
“Changes can be made in that past, but only if their effects haven’t yet had
major repercussions in the present. Rose is right. Once history has been
made, trying to change it in the past is like trying to steer this ship with a
teaspoon. It would have to be something that almost happened right
anyway, but didn’t for some reason. And it would take monumental,
immeasurable power.”
Scorpius said, “So if history can’t be changed, how can going back
to the past help us?”
Odin-Vann shook his head, growing animated, “I don’t mean
traveling back in time,” he said, lowering his voice with urgency. “I mean
going someplace that Petra has already been before, someplace with deep,

elemental meaning to her, someplace that defines her. We need an object, a
talisman that will connect Petra with Morgan on a quantum level. That
way, when we open the rift between dimensions, it will connect with the
proper place and time, taking Petra back to Morgan’s original world!”
“But,” James said, “I thought there was no way to open a rift
directly into another dimension? You have to go through the World
Between the Worlds, and there’s no way to find one specific dimension
from inside there. It would be like finding a single star in a billion
galaxies.”
Odin-Vann was shaking his head again, his eyes bright with fervor.
“No. It is possible to go straight into another dimension. But no one has
ever tried it because it’s only a one-way trip. And the cost is… terrible.
But it is only possible if we can find the right talisman, the right key to
Morgan’s original world!”
“So, what’s the key?” Rose asked.
Odin-Vann looked at James. And suddenly James knew the answer.
“Her father’s brooch,” he said in an awed voice, and shuddered.
Zane nodded, even as his mouth dropped open in revelation. “It’s
exactly like the brooch Petra lost on the back of the Gwyndemere when she
fell overboard! You saved her, but it sank forever! The one Merlin
captured was Morgan’s! She never went on the ship with you, because in
her world Izzy died and she went mad with loss! The brooch is from that
other dimension!”
Odin-Vann said, “It’s our only hope. It connects Petra to Morgan in
the most fundamental way—through a love they both shared. And it’s from
Morgan’s original world, making it the perfect key. If we can get it, then it
is just possible that Petra can accomplish her mission after all.”
James looked at the professor. “But, why do we need to go
anywhere for it? Merlin has the brooch, doesn’t he?”
Odin-Vann’s face hardened. “Merlin is a wilier and more cunning
character than any man who ever lived. It was he who somehow divined
that Petra had traveled to the World Between the Worlds in search of the
thread, and who confronted her there. It was he, I am willing to wager, who
sabotaged the Loom to prevent us from utilizing the thread and completing
our mission. He is not a man who would keep the brooch here at the
school, where Petra might come and win it back from him. He has hidden
it.” Here, his hard eyes glimmered with a mad light. “And I know where.”

“And how, pray tell,” Scorpius asked, arching one eyebrow, “could
you possibly know that?”
Odin-Vann smiled grimly. “Merlin is powerful,” he admitted. “But
he relies far too much on that power. I, on the other hand, am not
powerful. I spent my life being mocked and ridiculed for my weakness.
Which means that I came to rely most heavily on my intellect.” He tapped
his bloody temple grimly, meaningfully. “The headmaster’s reliance on raw
power is his greatest weakness, and with your help, we shall exploit it.”
“Well,” Ralph said with a resolute sigh, climbing back to his feet.
“I’m out.”
“What?!” James asked, surprised. “Are you serious? What do you
mean, you’re out?”
“I mean I’m going back to my common room and finishing my
Ancient Runes homework and going to bed,” Ralph replied, glancing
around the gathering. “And the rest of you should best do the same. This
bloke is right mental. He’s opposing Merlin. You heard him say that,
yeah? Merlinus Ambrosius!”
“He’s not opposing him,” James rasped, pitching his voice low.
“He’s just… Merlin doesn’t know what he’s doing this time. He doesn’t
understand Petra’s mission. That she’s the world’s only hope! He would
confront her instead of help her, and he would probably end up dead!”
“You think so?” Ralph said, raising his eyebrows. “Merlin’s no
fool, no matter what this nutter says. We should have gone to Merlin
months ago with this whole mess. He could fix it. He would have worked
with Petra. And she would have been a damn sight better off partnering
with the headmaster than with this… this…” He gestured at Odin-Vann
where he still sat, leaning against the wheelhouse.
“Ralph,” Zane said, climbing to his feet as well. “Are you going to
go tell the old man? I mean, you have every right to your opinion and all.
But it’s a little late in the game to be switching coaches now, isn’t it? If you
tell on us,” he shrugged helplessly, “then it’s all over.”
Ralph heaved a huge sigh as he glared at Zane, and then James, and
then Rose.
“Don’t look at me,” Scorpius said, raising a hand, palm out. “I’m
just here because it’s better than watching Warton and Finnegan snog in the
common room.”
Ralph finally shook his head weakly, hopelessly. “What good would

it do me to tell now? It’s too late, like you say. But I won’t be a part of this
anymore. It’s not right. I should have done something about it months
ago. I should have stood up to him when there was still a chance to make it
right.” He turned to Odin-Vann again, his face going stony with angry
disgust. Then, without looking back, he turned and stumped down the
gangplank.
From his seat on the deck, Odin-Vann raised his wand, aimed it at
the far off door, and tapped it. A spit of pink light flashed and, distantly, the
door latches unlocked.
“Mr. Malfoy,” Odin-Vann said a little coolly. “You can leave now as
well. Petra only asked for James, Rose, Zane, and Ralph.”
Scorpius shrugged. “I think I’ll stay, actually,” he said. “I can’t fill
Dolohov’s shoes, of course. Mainly because they’re ten sizes bigger than
mine. But I’m a curious sort. I’d like to see how this plays out. Assuming
nobody else minds.”
He glanced aside at James, Zane, and Rose. Zane nodded.
“Fine,” Odin-Vann sighed, finally pushing to his feet. “Then we
leave tonight. Right now, in fact. Petra awaits our return, and we don’t
have a second to spare.”
Rose glanced at James, her eyes worried. James understood. It was
all happening so fast, without any chance to think about what they were
about to do. And yet, really, did they have any choice? He hesitated for
only a moment, and then, to Odin-Vann, asked, “Where are we heading to?”
Odin-Vann’s eyes narrowed and sparkled again with that keen,
slightly hectic gleam. “Morganstern Farm,” he answered. “To the lake, and
its dead, sunken gazebo.”
Zane cocked his head. “Why there?”
Odin-Vann turned to the wheelhouse and wrenched open the door.
“Because it’s the very last place in the world that Merlin would expect us to
look.”

Odin-Vann piloted the ship himself. The ship’s wheel was nearly as
tall as he, but he held onto it with determination, turning the Gertrude
toward a different tunnel entrance than they had traversed before. This one
had no destination inscribed across its arch, but the professor—or the ship
itself—seemed to know where to go.
“It’s not the same without Ralph,” Zane said quietly. On James’
other side, Rose nodded.
James looked at Scorpius, expecting a snide comment, but the blond
boy said nothing, merely looked ahead, toward the approaching darkness as
the tunnel sucked the Gertrude in, drawing her inextricably into its rushing
current.
The masts folded with a heavy thump. Darkness swallowed the ship
and dizzying speed replaced the gentle rocking of the moonpool.
James barely noticed it. He held onto the brass railing bolted to the
back wall of the wheelhouse, watching the repaired lantern as it swung over
the bow, providing the only light in the rushing maw of the tunnel.
“We must be quick,” Odin-Vann called without looking back. “Each
of you will have a role to play.”
“And what will those roles be, exactly?” Scorpius called back.
James looked at Odin-Vann, who didn’t seem prepared to answer
that question just yet. Then, seeming to consider his words carefully, he
said, “We shall come up in the centre of the farm lake, but it will be difficult
to keep the ship from beaching on the shallow shores. Mr. Malfoy, you will
stay in the wheelhouse and keep us steady, hands on the wheel.” He
glanced aside quickly, his eyes bright with the reflection of the swaying
lantern ahead. It cast wild, swooping shadows in the darkness. “Rose, you
and Mr. Walker will raise the gazebo from its sunken state. It will be very
heavy and waterlogged, but I know that you can manage it together, as well
as keep it upright while I collect the hidden brooch. And James…” He
glanced back again, fleetingly meeting James’ eyes while struggling with
the ship’s wheel and the rushing dark beyond. Grey water exploded around
the speeding bow, throwing rafters of mist back against the windows,
blattering them noisily and blurring the view beyond. “James, you shall
assist me in retrieving the brooch.”
“That hardly seems like a two person job,” Scorpius observed.
“After what happened at the Archive,” Odin-Vann replied darkly, “I

won’t be taking the slightest chance.”
The journey took longer than James expected. The Gertrude rocked
up one side of the tunnel, then another, barreling through seemingly endless
dark. After a while, Rose covered her mouth with the back of her hand.
“I think I’m going to be sick,” she warned with a deep, gulping
breath.
“Nearly there,” Odin-Vann said, steeling himself as the tunnel
angled upward beneath them. James tightened his grip on the railing and
planted his footing. Water welled up over the bow in waves, and then
washed over it in a flood, submerging the lantern and rushing over the
windows. The roar of air was swallowed up in a deep, gurgling boom as
cold darkness engulfed the Gertrude. The ship angled steeply upward, still
blasting forward, but now through seamless, rushing depth. The lantern
continued to glow, forming a bottle-green halo through streaming bubbles.
And then, much smoother than before, the ship burst out onto wide
open surface, keeled ponderously forward, and, with a shuddering smack,
buried its hull in white-capped waves.
Anxiously, James stepped toward the windows and peered out
through streaming droplets. The waves were choppy and fast, dully
illuminated by moon glow through rushing, scrubby clouds. No land was
visible in any direction, only a dark horizon, unbroken and flat.
Zane pressed in alongside James. “This… is a pretty big woodland
lake, isn’t it?”
“We’re not to Morganstern farm yet,” Odin-Vann explained,
releasing the wheel and exhaling harshly. “Going to Oswestry isn’t like
going to London—it’s not a straight shot. This will take some good oldfashioned sailing, I’m afraid. We’re just past the Isle of Man. When we see
the lights of Liverpool we’ll submerge again and come up through the lake
on Morganstern farm.
Scorpius glanced aside at the professor. “It’s a good thing you know
how to operate a ship like this, isn’t it?”
Odin-Vann shrugged wearily, and then reached to pull a brass latch.
With a click, a ratchet, and a whip-crack of rigging, the masts creaked
upright again, shuddering into place. “The ship’s been charmed to take us
where we want to go. All we have to do is wait and watch.”
“How convenient,” Scorpius nodded, turning back to the dark view
beyond the window. “Morganstern did the hexing herself, did she?”

James glanced at Scorpius.
Odin-Vann frowned and blinked, then shook his head faintly.
“Petra? Oh. Yes, of course. She charmed it. I wouldn’t have any idea how
to do such a thing.”
“How humble of you,” Scorpius mused, seeming to merely think
aloud, “Thus, I assume that we are committed to our destination no matter
what?”
Odin-Vann didn’t answer. To the assembly, he said, “I’m going to
go below to wash up and try to sleep for an hour. Wake me when the coast
comes into sight, eh?”
“Aye-aye, Cap’n,” Zane said, standing rigid and giving a stiff salute.
“I really am going to be sick,” Rose moaned, and pushed toward the
door. Cool night air and mist rushed in as she heaved it open and fled out
onto the wet deck, angling toward the railing. Odin-Vann followed her and
turned toward the stairs into the ship’s hold.
“He certainly seems to have relaxed now that we’re underway,”
Scorpius commented, gazing after the departed professor.
James tilted his head at Scorpius. “What are you getting at?”
“I don’t know what he’s getting at,” Zane said, rubbing his stomach,
“but Petra nabbed me just as I was heading down for dinner, and I’m
starved. Does this tub have a galley, you think? A snack bar? A vending
machine, maybe?”
James glanced back at him. “Seriously? How can you eat at a time
like this?”
Zane shrugged, unperturbed. “Saving the world makes me hungry.”
James determined that accompanying Zane was marginally better
than simply waiting in the wheelhouse. Leaving Scorpius, they slipped out
onto the dark decks and explored around. There was very little to see.
Above decks, the wheelhouse, paddlewheels, and masts were the only
structures. Below decks, most of the space was separated into cargo holds,
divided down the centre by a narrow hall. Close to the bow was a small
common area for the crew, where James had sat with Merlin and Millie on
their return trip to London. Here, Professor Odin-Vann lay sprawled on the
bench, one arm over his eyes, one leg kicked out onto the deck, feet
akimbo. He snored fitfully.
“Here we go,” Zane whispered, wrenching open a series of small
cupboards. He rummaged and withdrew a cellophane-wrapped package.

Squinting in the low light, he read the label. “‘Halberd’s Humble
Hardtack’. Ever heard of it?”
James shook his head, distracted.
Zane used his teeth to strip off the wrapping, revealing a stack of
biscuits that looked, both in size and color, like roofing shingles. He
shrugged and bit one. Then, he bit it harder. Unable to crack a corner off
the allegedly edible biscuit, he lowered it and struck it against the edge of a
counter. It knocked like stone. He sighed mournfully and tossed it away.
Rose joined them a few minutes later and the threesome sat in the
hold, not talking, leaning in time to the rocking rhythm of the hull. Nearby,
Odin-Vann continued to snore haltingly.
Growing stiff and frustratingly bored, James stood and headed back
along the hall that divided the cargo areas. No one joined him.
Scorpius was seated against the wall at the end, his knees up and his
hands dangling over them.
James plopped down next to him.
“Why did you really come along?” he asked. “It sure wasn’t out of
the overflowing goodness of your heart.”
Blandly, Scorpius said, “You wound me, sir.”
“I’m serious.”
Scorpius gave a weak shrug. “You don’t really believe that cockand-bull story Odin-Vann told about finding Morganstern’s talisman on her
grandfather’s farm, do you?”
James sat up and turned to Scorpius. “The brooch? What do you
mean?”
“I mean, the likelihood of him outsmarting the headmaster is about
as high as you beating Dolohov at Wizard chess. In short, not at all. He’s
either deluded—which is entirely possible—or he’s lying.”
“But…” James shook his head, caught between alarm and
annoyance, “why would he lie? He’s helping Petra, isn’t he? Just like we
all are.”
“Just like you all are,” Scorpius corrected. “I just came along to
keep an eye on Rose and Walker. He’s got a thing for her. And I’m the
jealous type.”
“Don’t change the subject,” James said, watching the blond boy
closely. “You think Odin-Vann is lying to us? Do you agree with Ralph
about him? That he’s not to be trusted?”

“Don’t tell me you haven’t figured it out yet,” Scorpius sighed. “It
was you that wrote the note to yourself after all. Surely you don’t need me
to spell it out for you.”
“You know what I’m sick of?” James suddenly declared, gesturing
angrily with both hands. “People hinting at big, important revelations
without ever just giving me a direct answer! Millie’s grandmother,
Headmaster Merlin, and now you! Out with it, or learn to keep your dodgy
suspicions to yourself!”
Scorpius allowed a small smile, clearly enjoying James’
discomfiture. Then, he nodded and grew serious again. “It’s all in your
note. You remember the play, just like I do. The roles are all in place, now
just as they were then.”
James slumped. “Yeah, yeah. Petra is Princess Astra,” he said with
a roll of his eyes. “And I’m Treus, blind with love and all that. What’s the
point?”
“Like I said, you wrote the note,” Scorpius answered loftily. “All
I’m saying is that here we are, in the final act. The two of you are on centre
stage once again. And I think you wrote yourself that note for a reason.”
“I dreamed a crazy dream,” James shook his head dismissively.
“About Petra in a graveyard with Albus. I woke up with an idea in my
head. It made no sense, but apparently I wrote it down. I barely remember
doing it. I was probably still dreaming.”
“It’s called ‘automatic writing’,” Scorpius said, sliding a disdainful
eye toward James. “We learned it in Trelawney’s first class. Just because
she’s a daft old nutter doesn’t mean there’s no such thing as prophecy.”
James frowned. “I pay as little attention in her class as I can,” he
admitted.
Scorpius rolled his eyes, and then said, “Automatic writing is what
happens when your subconscious knows something that your waking mind
doesn’t. It’s when the buried part of your brain takes over your body for a
moment to send your waking mind a message.”
James considered this, and then shook his head again. “I don’t see
what the message could be. It’s just a line from the play. Beware foul
Donovan.”
“Not actually,” Scorpius said. “Nowhere in the play are those three
words spoken. Treus comes close during his rallying speech. But the word
‘beware’ isn’t anywhere in the script.”

James blinked as he thought back to the play. He tried to recall his
own lines. Reluctantly, he realized that Scorpius was right. Still, it was just
as likely that his second-year self had gotten the line wrong in the note as it
was that the three words had any prophetic significance.
He mused on it, strained and concentrated, trying to determine what
the words could possibly mean in their current situation. But nothing came
to him. Finally, mentally exhausted, he gave up.
A minute passed, and then he said to Scorpius, “You really should
just break up with Rose.”
Scorpius glanced aside at him, his brow darkening. “I don’t know if
I’m more impressed that that’s what you’re over there mooning about, or
annoyed that you would actually say it.”
“Neither,” James said, staring darkly down the length of the hall. “I
just realized I don’t care what you think anymore.”
Scorpius relaxed a little. “Facing the possibility of the end of the
world does that, I suppose.”
“I’m serious,” James said dully. “You don’t even know what to do
with her. I swear, you deliberately lash her emotions back and forth just
because you wouldn’t know how to have a normal human conversation with
her.”
“This from the person who can’t choose between an entitled, bossy
aristocrat and a neurotic criminal sorceress.”
James drew an annoyed sigh and blew it out. He wanted to argue
with Scorpius. He wanted to tell him that he, Scorpius, wasn’t a bad
person, exactly, he was just bad for Rose. But there didn’t seem to be any
point. He realized, almost clinically, how late the hour probably was.
Midnight? Even later?
His jaw cracked as a monumental yawn overtook him.
Next to him, Scorpius kicked out one leg and leaned aside, turning
away from James.
James no longer cared. Weariness stole over him, weighing his
eyelids down, turning his muscles into sandbags.
He gave in to it, and time began to stretch out, first dulling every
sensation, and then turning minutes into hours.
He did not dream.
A sudden hard shudder wracked the ship, and James felt himself
falling forward. He flailed in confusion, not sure which way was up, his

head still reeling, thick with sleep. A wall of cold, worn wood slammed
against him, and he realized, very dimly, that it was the floor of the hall.
He pushed himself up onto his elbows and pried his eyes open. The
light was different. Thin pencil-beams of grey daylight lanced down from
above, shining through cracks in the upper deck.
Scorpius groaned in bleary irritation, struggling up from his own
prone position on the floor.
“We fell asleep,” James rasped, his voice hoarse. He scrubbed his
face with his hands, raked them through his hair. “We slept through the
night. Had to have. Are we there?”
“I need a loo and a cup of black tea,” Scorpius answered grumpily,
pushing himself to his feet and then slumping back against the wall. The
ship rocked gently beneath them, accompanied by the distant slap of waves.
James turned and stumbled back along the hall, still bleary with
sleep, but forcing himself to alertness.
Rose and Zane met them at the stairs, Rose with her hair bushed out
in sleepy tangles, Zane blinking and squinting up into the gloomy dawn
above. Together, without a word, they tramped up the steps into cool air
and drab, stormy daylight.
Odin-Vann stood on the bow, in front of the wheelhouse. He looked
back when he heard them coming, his eyes bright and wary.
“We’re here,” he announced in a hushed voice, and pointed ahead.
James moved to join the professor, blinking against the pall of white
fog that surrounded the ship.
“I don’t see anything,” Scorpius said flatly, passing James and
peering all around.
“It’s there,” Odin-Vann nodded. “Just visible through the fog. Trees
on all sides and there, just ahead, the old dock and the sunken gazebo.
James, you’ve seen this place, yes? At least, the decades’ past version of it
that Petra can conjure? You recognize it, don’t you?”
James inched toward the bow railing and peered critically out over
the leaden waves. Now that Odin-Vann mentioned it, he could see the
shadows of trees, an encircling wood, all shrouded and ghostly beyond the
lurking fog. He turned his gaze to the front. The bow did indeed seem to
be pointed at a skeletal dock. It swam in and out of drifting grey mist.
“This is it,” he nodded. “In Petra’s version, the gazebo is still there,
at the end of the dock. But the version in our time is broken away and

sunken. I don’t know how deep.” He glanced down at the water, but
nothing was visible through it. The waves slapped at the hull, reflecting the
clot of the sky, turning the lake into a shifting, broken mirror.
“We’re drifting,” Odin-Vann said, his eyes still on the dock in its
mantle of fog. “Scorpius, take the wheel and keep us in the centre of the
lake.”
“I didn’t want to say so last night,” Scorpius replied, tired and terse,
“But I don’t think that’s how boats work.”
“Go!” Odin-Vann said with sudden strength, turning back to
Scorpius. His eyes were wide and sharp, either on the edge of panic, or
triumph. “Rose, Walker, raise the gazebo. Aim for the water just in front of
the broken dock!”
Scorpius, James noticed, backed up to the wheelhouse but didn’t
enter it. From the shadows, his narrowed eyes watched Odin-Vann keenly.
Rose and Zane approached the rocking prow and drew their wands.
Sharing a quick glance, they aimed for the dock, and then dipped their arms
slightly, toward the restless waves beneath.
“Wingardium leviosa!” they both called in unison.
James sensed more than heard the surge of magic which fired into
the depths. Nothing happened at first. Then, subtly, a deep groan arose
from the deep. Odin-Vann moved slowly alongside Zane, his gaze rapt.
James sidled in next to him, thinking hard, a sense of cold trepidation
settling over him like a shroud. It was all happening so suddenly, too
quickly for anyone to think about.
And then, a thought that had haunted the back of his mind since the
previous night finally pushed to the fore, bringing with it a deepening
suspicion.
“Professor,” he whispered, even as he watched the water at the base
of the dock. A surge of dense bubbles pushed the surface into a low swell.
“How did you find out that Merlin had hidden Petra’s brooch here? Did she
tell you?”
Odin-Vann’s gaze didn’t flicker from the bubbling disturbance.
More deep groans and creaks emanated from the cold depths. Zane and
Rose frowned in tense concentration.
“Come, James,” Odin-Vann said, holding out his hand and swinging
one leg over the railing. James glanced up at him in surprise. “Come!” the
Professor said in a commanding rasp. “And look!”

He nodded toward the waves below the bobbing bow. There, a haze
of white solidified a wave, freezing it into a sudden ice floe, which arose
silently, like a surfacing submarine. The floe pressed up against OdinVann’s boot, supporting his weight. “See? Petra’s power accompanies us.
Come. I will need your eyes and courage to accomplish our task.”
With that, he swung his other leg over the railing and stood atop the
frozen, elevated wave. Another crackled into being before him, rising to
meet his next step down, forming enchanted, icy stairs. A wintry chill
wafted up from them, making James’ breath suddenly puff a visible cloud.
He shivered violently.
“Go, James,” Zane said in a strained voice. “Once this thing’s out
of the water we won’t be able to hold it up for long.”
James nodded worriedly and climbed awkwardly over the bow
railing. His foot skidded on the ice step below, and then found purchase.
Carefully, nervously, he began to follow Odin-Vann down, moving from
frozen step to frozen step. Once James and the professor reached the level
of the water, the stairs sank away with a deep gurgle, replaced by a bridge
of ice, as thin as paper and brittle as glass, yet somehow strong enough to
support their weight as they walked slowly, approaching the rising swell
before the dock.
As James watched, peering around Odin-Vann’s shoulder, he saw
the spire of the old gazebo spear out of the gurgling boil. It was made of
wood, but rotted and misshapen, barely sheathed in slimy white paint. It
pushed upward, and a conical roof began to follow, its old shakes warped,
as unruly as a hag’s teeth. Water began to pour down the roof as it widened,
unleashing the weight of the depths.
“Only,” James whispered, more urgently now. “I had a meeting
with the headmaster. He told me how he was keeping the brooch because
he was hoping Petra would come to him. He had it with him, right there in
his office. Did he… maybe… hide it here later?”
Odin-Vann didn’t answer. He inched closer to the rising gazebo.
“Ungh!” Rose grunted from behind. “This… is heavy!”
“Just a little more,” Odin-Vann called back, holding out one hand in
a calming gesture. The ice bridge had narrowed as it stretched out, as if its
power was weakening. Waves swamped serenely over it, wetting James’
shoes as he turned sideways, edging along in the professor’s wake.
Beware, foul Donovan, he thought. The words teased him, seemed

to nag at him.
Surely you don’t need me to spell it out for you, Scorpius had said
the night before.
“Almost there,” Odin-Vann said, almost to himself.
A long, creaking moan emanated from the gazebo as it rose further
into the grey air, casting off its freight of water. It was crooked, turning as
it rose, wallowing like a bloated corpse. Slick drapes of seaweed hung from
its edges and coated its upright supports.
James stopped as an awful idea began to form in his mind. The cold
of the ice bridge welled up over him.
Beware, foul…
The roar of water was too loud to speak over as the gazebo
disgorged from the lake, finally bobbing fully to the surface. Its interior
was obscured by curtains of limp, slimy seaweed. As it settled, it rocked
and turned slightly, groaning against the old pilings.
“Donofrio Odin-Vann,” James whispered urgently, his eyes
widening in horrible, stunned revelation. “Don… O… Vann!”
The gazebo shuddered against the dock, and as it did so the seaweed
tore loose from its roofline, falling away like a sodden veil.
Someone was standing inside the gazebo. The shape was barely a
silhouette, wasted and skeletal, and yet still, somehow, recognizable by her
long, sopping red hair.
“James,” she said in a chiding, rasping, ancient voice. “I warned
you, did I not? On the lake just this past winter, I told you to abandon your
Petra. And yet here you are. Predictable… to the last.”
Ahead of James, Odin-Vann’s arm jerked spasmodically, whipping
his wand up and back. James flinched in terror as it seemed to point at him
and fire a bolt of blinding blue. The spell sizzled over his shoulder,
however, striking a mark further away, back on the boat.
Scorpius grunted in surprise. James turned in time to see the boy
flung back against the wheelhouse, his wand falling from his hand. A
moment later, he collapsed heavily to the deck.
James drew breath to yell, but a sudden horrible pressure squeezed
the air right out of him. The world spun upside down as he was lifted from
the ice bridge and heaved away from the ship, pressed in the grip of a
monstrous watery tentacle. A second later, he struck the cold, rotten floor
of the gazebo, rolling hard enough to bash against the rear railing, smashing

a leg through it.
“I would not!” Judith called toward the ship, her voice a hoarse
shriek but still with the same imperious tone of command. “Drop this
structure back into the depths and poor James goes down with it!”
James tried to struggle up, but his leg was tangled in the broken
railing. Judith was standing directly before him. Her once glorious robes
were now matted and sodden, rotted threadbare. Beneath them, her body
seemed to be all angles, mere bones and tendon. She stank abominably.
Thirty yards away, Zane and Rose still leaned over the bow of the
Gertrude, wands outstretched, straining, eyes wide with shock and fear.
Between them and the gazebo, Odin-Vann stood on the ice bridge
with his wand still raised, pointing back at the boat, but his face looking
forward, eyes locked upon Judith. His expression was misty with
something very near adoration.
“Professor!” James called, half attempting to snap the man out of
the trance that Judith had cast over him. Odin-Vann dipped his gaze for a
moment, blinking at James, and his face hardened. James understood the
terrible truth: Judith had not cast any entrancement over the man at all. He
was doing this entirely of his own free will.
“It was you,” James exclaimed with sudden, sinking surety. “You
sabotaged the Loom! But why?”
Judith answered, “The good professor and I have certain mutual
interests, James.” As she spoke, she turned to look down at him. Her face,
James now saw, was a shrivel of filmy white skin over bone. Her lips were
gone, revealing the ivory grin of her teeth. Her eyes were like peeled
grapes in the hollows of their sockets. But her hair was still long and red,
draping her skull in wet ribbons. “As you can see, I need a new host. Petra
has broken from me. Without her, my time in this sphere is nearly over.
But Mr. Odin-Vann is more than willing to take her place. He is eager.”
James recoiled from the horror of Judith’s dead stare. Trembling, he
tore his gaze away from her and focused again on the professor. “But what
could you possibly get out of it?”
Odin-Vann frowned and shook his head, slowly but firmly, as if
James had finally confirmed something that he had been suspecting all
along.
“You really don’t know, do you?” he seemed to wonder aloud.
“Early on, I thought perhaps you would prove different. When you were

attacked and humiliated by the little bullies, Edgecombe and his friends. I
hoped you might grasp the truth. But now I see that you really are just like
all the rest. Too arrogant in your own perceived superiority to understand
what it’s like…” He edged toward James, his face contorting into a mask of
furious, age-old misery, “to be mocked. To be belittled at every turn. To be
coddled like a child by those who believe they are good, and beaten down
like a dog by those who know they are bad.” He moved forward more
resolutely now, homing in on James, raising his chin and speaking with the
fervor of long-suppressed rage. “Both of those acts arise from the same,
pathetic delusion. That they are better than me. That they are more
powerful than me. That I will always be what they believe me to be. A
weak, slow, bookish, clumsy little embarrassment! But now the world will
see. I used my brain to defeat them first. I made my WAND!”
He brandished it in his fist, which vibrated with manic tension. His
eyes blazed.
“Slow, was I in the past? Now, I am the fastest wizard alive!
Weak? Now I have the power of instantaneous strength. I have finally
programmed my wand with every counter-jinx, every protective charm,
every repulsion hex in the Caster’s Lexicon! Thus primed, it can sense and
deflect any spell that anyone dares attack me with!” He drew a huge,
firming breath and held it. “With this tool finally perfected, I knew I was
unstoppable. But I also knew that it was not enough. I needed not only to
silence those who had tormented me, but to stand up against all who cling
to the pathetic illusion of their own superiority. All of those who bumble
through this life so convinced of their own goodness, their own virtue, their
own idiotic delusion of right! And then… Judith found me.”
He looked aside at her, finally stepping up onto the warped floor of
the gazebo and joining her.
“She found me,” he said with sudden, soft rapture. “And she helped
me to understand. Petra, my old school friend, would come to me. Judith
divined this directly from Petra’s thoughts, for as yet they are still, if barely,
connected. And when Petra did come to me, I would assist her. Judith
helped me to see that it was my duty. I must help Petra to rid herself of her
curse once and for all. I must do this, with Judith’s help… by ending her.”
“No!” James exclaimed, straining to extricate his leg from the
broken railing.
“It’s the merciful thing,” Judith agreed in her cracked, swampy

voice. “Secretly, even Petra herself desires her death. And then, with her
out of the way, Donofrio will become my new host. Thus fully restored and
once again rooted to this realm, we can finally rejoice that power will be in
the hands of those who truly deserve it, and who are unafraid to use it.”
“Because, James,” Odin-Vann said, looking down at him now with a
sort of benevolent sadness. “Judith really is right. It isn’t just some people
who stumble through this life under the delusion of their own rightness. It’s
all of them. And they are all… every one… fatally, insultingly, wrong.”
His voice grew leaden as he spoke the final words, and raised his
wand, pointing it at James.
“Oh, bugger this!” a voice said from some distance away. James
glanced up and saw that it was Rose. She jerked her wand upright,
releasing the levitation spell.
“Swim, James!” she shouted desperately. Next to her, Zane
staggered, suddenly supporting the gazebo entirely with his own wand. He
grunted, gasped, and broke his spell as well.
The gazebo dropped precipitously, struck the water, and began to
roll over, immediately capsizing.
Odin-Vann stumbled, fell past Judith, and struck a side railing,
smashing it and following it into the water.
A bolt of brilliant red struck the waves where he had fallen,
exploding in a burst of steam. Rose was firing attacks from the ship,
aiming for both Odin-Vann and Judith. Zane gripped his wand to join her.
Judith whirled. In a blink, she transformed into a cyclone of
stinking black water, her force tearing the gazebo apart all around.
Writhing tentacles uncoiled and scooped Odin-Vann from the water. His
body was borne up into the throat of the waterspout, which roared, circled
James with fury as he thrashed amidst the ruin, and then fled away out over
the lake, bypassing the Gertrude and vanishing into the dense pall of fog all
around.
“James!” Zane called, stabbing out his wand again. Breathlessly, he
repeated the levitation spell. James, along with a messy assortment of
broken railing, floor planks, and destroyed roofing, rocketed up out of the
waves with breathtaking speed, streaming water in a corona.
“Yikes!” Zane gasped, grabbing onto his wand now with both
hands. “You’re a lot lighter than that crazy gazebo. Hold on while I rein it
in a little!”

Clumsily, trembling with exhaustion, he bobbed James, along with
his entourage of sodden debris, over the deck and set him down. James
stumbled as his feet met the planks.
“We have to go after them!” he gasped, grabbing onto a railing for
support.
“None of us even knows how!” Rose cried helplessly, dragging a
still-woozy Scorpius to his feet. “We don’t know how to sail this ship!”
“How hard can it be?” Zane said, stuffing his wand back into his
pocket. “We watched Hagrid do it, didn’t we? All we have to do is set the
destination lever back to Hogwarts. Down we go and we’ll be on our way
back!”
“I don’t think it’s going to be quite that straightforward,” Scorpius
said, pushing fully to his feet and nodding toward the deck near James’
feet.
James glanced down. A chunk of rotten railing lay on the deck,
transported aboard along with himself by Zane’s levitation spell. But as
James watched, the broken wooden chunk melted away like an ice
sculpture, losing all colour and draining into a loose puddle.
Behind him, a hunk of roof did the same. In a moment, all the
gazebo debris had vanished into nothing but melted seawater.
“Oh no,” Rose said, her voice high and faint. She ran to the railing
and peered out over the waves.
Beyond her, the fog was drifting away, fading from view.
Revealing…
Nothing. There was no encircling shoreline or fringe of woodland.
Only dark waves marching off into further and further leagues, eventually
stretching all the way to the horizon.
James reached the railing alongside Rose and looked out,
speechless.
Faintly, Zane asked, “We’re not in any country lake… are we?”
“They got rid of us,” Scorpius mused aloud, almost as if he was
impressed. “Odin-Vann and The Lady of the Lake. They got rid of us
because we were the only ones who know enough to stop them.”
“But, where are we?” James asked, banging his fist down onto the
railing.
“I think where we are matters less,” Zane said, nudging James and
pointing upward, “than that does.”

James looked up. Revealed by the retreating fog, a low, hulking boil
of clouds bore down on the Gertrude, driven before a rising, whipping
wind. It was a storm front, dark as a bruise and flickering with gouts of
lightning, rumbling with distant thunder.
“Am I crazy,” Rose breathed, eyes wide, “or does that storm seem to
be aiming directly for us?”
“Into the wheelhouse,” James cried, finally engaging to action. He
turned, grabbing Zane and pulling him along. “We need to get back into the
tunnels below, and as soon as possible! The storm won’t be able to reach us
there, and we can get back.”
Fat drops of rain began to pepper the ship, striking with stinging
force, pinging off the metal wheelhouse and pattering in the sails. Together,
the foursome poured through the door of the wheelhouse. Scorpius tugged
it shut with a heavy clang.
James moved behind the wheel, which was turning loosely back and
forth with the increasing rock of the ship.
Wind suddenly tore over the deck outside, whumping in the sails
and singing a high, whipping note in the rigging.
Scorpius scanned the instruments ranged below the window. Spying
a large brass dial with an attached lever, he gripped it and tugged. The lever
ratcheted, turning the dial past several notches. When it stopped, the
readout showed a single word, white letters printed on black: HOGWARTS.
The wheel began to turn in James’ hand, spinning ponderously and
bringing the Gertrude about. With a lurch, it rocked forward. A spray of
mist began to plow up beneath the bow. Then, heavily, the bow began to
rise and fall on the waves, striking with sickening force and sending up
gouts of spray.
The Gertrude drove onward, faster, but it did not submerge.
This was all part of Judith’s design, James realized. To maroon
them far from any hope of escape, to set a murderous storm upon them,
preventing their return, and hopefully killing them all. It was just as
Scorpius had said: this was the final act, and the stage was set. It was the
Triumvirate brought to horrifying life: a ruse of an ocean journey, a magical
storm racing them back, and the villain Donovan, along with his ally, the
Lady of the Lake this time instead of the Marsh Hag, forging ahead, ready
and prepared to freely execute their final, fatal plan.
And yet their intent was no mere wedding conspiracy in pursuit of a

seat of power. Their plan was to somehow kill Petra, leaving Odin-Vann to
take over as Judith’s host, harnessing her chaotic power instead of thwarting
it.
As James finally grasped this horrible change of events, a surge of
undiluted anger welled up in his chest. Odin-Vann had lied to Petra all
along about helping her to fulfill her destiny as the Crimson Thread. He
had never intended to help her save the world. He had tricked her,
sabotaged her, fed her guilt and the madness of her scheme, only to betray
her in the end in the worst way possible.
“But,” Rose asked James, not taking her eyes from the rushing
waves and the advancing, terrible storm, “How can Odin-Vann and Judith
kill Petra? They know she made a Horcrux.”
“Potter here knows better than anyone else,” Scorpius answered
darkly. “Horcruxes can be created, and they can also be destroyed. They
needed Petra alive for some reason, until this moment. Where there’s a
will, there’s a way.”
James knew that Scorpius was right. But he had a deep suspicion
that Judith’s answer would be a lot simpler, and more final, than even
Scorpius suggested.

23. CHAOS DESCENDS
The Gertrude could not outpace the storm. Even as it plowed
forward through the rising waves, the arms of the tempest encroached on
both sides, surrounding the blockade runner in a smothering embrace.
Wind tore across the deck in capricious gusts, shrieking in the rigging and
whumping the furled sails hard enough to shudder the entire boat. In the
wheelhouse, the windows rattled in their frames. Raindrops fell hard
enough to ring on the roof like coins.
“It’s slowing us down,” Zane observed, raising his voice over the
gale. “The storm is coming around against it, forcing us backwards!”
Scorpius leaned toward the window and peered up. “It’s the sails
and masts,” he said. “Too much wind resistance.”
James understood. “We need to lighten our load and get more
streamlined. Come on!” He reached for the door.
“What are you going to do?” Rose asked, her eyes wide. And yet
James saw that she already had an inkling of his plan. She drew out her
wand in preparation.
He nodded, one hand on the door. “We need to strip away the
masts, the sails, the rigging, everything that’s slowing us down.”
He shoved open the door against a sudden, shocking force of wind.

Rain sprayed in, immediately spattering his face and hair. He squinted
against it and pressed out into the gale. Rose followed, with Scorpius and
Zane right behind.
The driving rain was like icy pebbles pelting their heads and
shoulders. Indeed, the deck was scattered with tiny knots of hail. They
rolled with the increasing sway of the ship, pushed by ever harder gusts of
wind.
“Hagrid will likely kill us!” Rose cried over the storm as James
raised his wand, aiming at the foremast.
James hoped they lived long enough to find out. He sighted down
his wand, squinting one eye shut, and shouted, “Convulsis!”
The bolt struck the mast just below a junction of pulleys and
netting. With a deafening crack and flash of purple, the base exploded,
spraying splinters in every direction. The mast crunched down, still
momentarily suspended in its web of rigging, but then the force of the storm
caught it, pushed it, and the mast keeled over ponderously, dragging whips
of rope and torn netting with it. The boat rolled and the mast fell into the
waves, where it was tugged away from the ship completely.
From the rear of the ship, another flash and crack marked the aft
mast. Zane and Scorpius backed away quickly, peering up as the mast
creaked, snapped, and tottered backwards, spearing into the waves beyond
the stern.
Suddenly, sickeningly, time seemed to double back on itself in
James’ mind. As he watched the aft mast break and tear away, the Gertrude
became the Gwyndemere. He heard Petra’s surprised scream as the falling
boom swept her overboard, felt the weight of her hanging from the back of
the ship over hungry, mountainous waves. He brooch fell away, and her
eyes pleaded with him. Let me go, James, she said with terrible calm…
He was shaken back to the present as Rose tugged him by the arm.
“The lifeboats,” she cried, pointing. There were only two, one on either
side of the bow, lying upside down and battened down with canvas straps.
Together, they broke the straps with their wands and blasted the
boats over the side, taking some of the railing with them.
James paused and looked back over the ship, shielding his eyes with
one hand. The Gertrude was no longer a high, noble craft but a streamlined,
if ragged, bullet shape, stripped down to a low profile that noticeably cut
the waves much faster, driven by its magic-powered paddle wheels.

“That’s the best we can do,” Zane called, returning from the stern,
his hair plastered to his forehead by rain. “We blasted away everything that
wasn’t bolted down, and plenty that was!”
“Let’s go back inside,” James shouted and pointed to the
wheelhouse, which was now the highest point on the ship.
The storm boomed thunder and spat lightning, illuminating miles of
waves like a flashbulb image. The four students clambered back into the
relative warmth of the wheelhouse and James resumed the wheel, catching
it as it spun sluggishly.
“What now?” Rose asked, wiping her wet hair out of her face.
James considered this, and shrugged a little helplessly. “We see if
we can outrun it.”
Amazingly, this did now seem possible. Relieved of its excess
weight and drag, the Gertrude plowed ahead like a torpedo. The storm still
strained on both sides, trying to close in on the little ship, but it could only
keep pace. Slowly, it began to fall behind.
Within a few minutes, the waves ahead shrank from sharp-peaked
hills for the Gertrude to climb to streaming whitecaps for the ship to cut
through. The blasting wind gradually diminished, replaced by warmer
currents. Thunder still boomed, sounding like an enraged beast cheated of
its prey, but from greater distance.
And then, so suddenly that James gasped and flailed with one hand,
grabbing for the steadying bar behind him, the Gertrude angled down like a
whale. Its bow plunged into the ocean, buried itself in the waves, and the
entire ship followed. Water rushed up over the diminished shape of the
boat, overtook the windows, and swallowed the Gertrude with a deep,
gurgling roar. Dimness filled the wheelhouse as the bow dropped first into
rushing green pressure, and then into swift and total darkness. The lantern
was gone, of course, having been blasted away along with the foremast.
James could see nothing. The ship creaked ominously all around,
adjusting to the pressures of the deep.
“I hate this part,” Rose said in a strained voice.
The external pressure changed somehow. James felt it in his
stomach and the very sockets of his eyes. With a shudder and a blast of
bubbles, the Gertrude sucked into some smaller, tighter space, accelerating
at an even more alarming rate than before. Stripped of its external
structures, the ship was an underwater arrow, careening into blind darkness.

The ship suddenly dropped, fell through a burst of loose water, and
landed with a shuddering thud in the sluice of the returning tunnel. Freed of
the surrounding depths, it sped onward, rocking with the angle of the walls.
The storm was behind them now, and they were utterly beyond its
angry reach. It may be a magical storm, as James suspected, but they would
outpace it easily, at least until they reached their destination.
All that was left was to return to Hogwarts and hope that they
weren’t too late to stop whatever Judith and Odin-Vann intended to do.
With this in mind, James leaned forward into the rushing dark, peering
uselessly through the black window. He groped and put his hands on the
wheel again, doing whatever he could to keep the ship pointing straight
ahead, willing the boat to go even faster.
“We can’t confront them, you know,” Scorpius said, sensing James’
thoughts. “Judith and Odin-Vann. She’s too powerful. And he countered
my stunning spell before it so much as left my wand. He can deflect any
spell we might cast. There’s no way to battle either of them.”
“I don’t care about battling them,” James said grimly. “We just need
to get to Petra. We have to tell her what we know.”
After a worried moment, Zane asked, “And then what?”
James narrowed his eyes in the blind dark. With conviction, he
answered, “Then she can battle them.”

The return journey seemed to take far longer than James thought
possible. The Gertrude barreled onward through endless curves and
pitches. Rose and Scorpius braved the rushing wind and sloping decks to
leave the wheelhouse and climb down to the hold, hoping that the motion
would somehow be less pronounced below. Only Zane stayed with James.
Neither spoke, but James was glad of his old friend’s presence. After what
felt like hours, James loosened his grip on the wheel. His fingers ached
from strain, and his eyes bulged for light.

Zane sensed James’ respite. “This isn’t the same without the
Ralphinator, is it?” he said for the second time.
James sighed deeply and nodded in the dark. He knew Zane
couldn’t see him, but didn’t think it mattered.
Zane spoke again. “I wonder what our parents are up to right
now?” He seemed to consider this in the rushing darkness, and then said,
“Actually, I know what my parents are probably doing. They’re home in
St. Louis starting to think about dinner. Greer is probably at the table doing
her homework and being really grumpy about it, while my dad teases her,
thinking it will put her in a better mood, although it never does. They’re
Muggles, so they don’t know anything about halted destinies, and rogue
sorceresses, and magical snafus threatening to end the whole universe. I
think, for the first time in my life… I’m a little jealous of them.”
“My dad is probably home in his office,” James mused quietly.
“Probably looking over the latest reports and emergency procedures, but not
really reading any of it. Just moving pages around while his brain spins on
like a machine, trying out ideas, testing plans, figuring out what he’s going
to do next. I’ve seen him like that a thousand times.”
“We should call him somehow when we get to Hoggies,” Zane said
with resolve. “He’s Harry Potter. He’ll know what to do.”
James shook his head slowly. “Do you remember what the dryad
said, back during our first year?”
Zane blew out a breath, as if he’d been secretly thinking the same
thing. “Yeah. She said your father’s battle was over. She said this one
would be all yours.”
“Well, fortunately, it’s not all mine. I’ve got you, and Rose, and
Scorpius.”
Zane seemed to accept this. Then, uncomfortably, he added, “But
no Ralph.”
“Ralph is his own problem now,” James said, half angry, half sad.
Gradually, light began to blossom far ahead. James at first
wondered if his senses were teasing him, but the glow quickly resolved into
a solid blur, deep blue, reflecting on the rushing river and the walls of its
tunnel, growing with increasing speed.
James tensed to alertness and gripped the ship’s wheel again.
“Looks like we’re almost back,” Zane said, approaching the
windows and peering out.

James suddenly didn’t feel ready. He realized now that he had
drifted into a sort of stunned stupor, lulled by the motion of the ship and the
timelessness of the dark. Now, adrenaline surged through his body like
electricity, bringing with it a sick dread. He felt the weight of his wand in
his pocket, and wondered how soon he might need to draw it, to use it to
defend either his own life or someone else’s.
The blue light grew to fill the tunnel, but remained dim and murky,
rushing forward to illuminate the ship.
“Something’s wrong,” James said, almost to himself.
Instead of angling out into the open air of the moonpool, the tunnel
river rose suddenly, washing up the tunnel walls and closing over the bow
of the Gertrude. The ship bobbed upward with it, rising on the sudden tide
until the wheelhouse roof crunched against the ceiling, screeching and
scraping with deafening force until the roof began to cave in over James’
and Zane’s heads. They ducked instinctively, eyes wide with fear.
Then, with a rushing whump, the river blasted over the ship
completely, submerging it in dim blue depth. The Gertrude sank away from
the tunnel ceiling, fortunately, but began to turn, rolling into a sluggish
corkscrew. James held onto the ship’s wheel while Zane grappled with the
railing behind, struggling to stay on his feet as the wall and floor began to
switch places.
The view ahead changed. The ship shot out of the confines of the
tunnel into some larger space full of murky, shifting depths. James couldn’t
recognize it at first, if only because he was looking at it sideways, from the
odd capsizing perspective of the ship. Then, with a cold shock, he
recognized the huge circular space, the row of tunnel mouths, the terraces
leading up to the closed and locked door. It was the cavern beneath the
lake, only completely submerged now, dense with shifting beams of what
could only be moon glow sifting down from the lake far above.
Something disastrous had happened, flooding the erstwhile
moonpool.
Shapes swam through the dimness, darting between shadows,
glinting like metal in the dim moonlight. James couldn’t tell for certain, but
he had a cold suspicion that the shapes were not fish.
The Gertrude slowed as it propelled out into the airless abyss, still
turning, turning upside down. James and Zane clambered over each other,
banging from the wheelhouse’s walls and tumbling to its ceiling. Noises

boomed up from the ship as its contents shifted, rolled, crashed through
corners and angles. James hoped, fleetingly, that Rose and Scorpius were
hanging on tight somewhere, safe from the loose cargo.
The Gertrude was angling upwards now, even as it continued to
corkscrew, tumbling slowly upright again. Through the windows, the
beams of moonlight broke into tatters, resolved into rolling facets—waves
seen eerily from below. They rushed closer, grew larger, and James
tightened his grip on the wheel.
With a thunderous roar, the ship exploded to the surface, crashing
down and bobbing crookedly on oily waves, where it listed precipitously,
streaming water from its decks.
James was bruised and sore from his tumble around the interior of
the wheelhouse, but he forgot his own pains entirely as water ran from the
windows, revealing the view beyond.
Hogwarts castle was lit against the blue night sky by a seething
yellow glare from below. James could not see its source beyond the trees,
but the flicker of fire was unmistakable. Shadows moved past the trees,
forming a mass of silhouettes, some flitting in furtive groups, others
worryingly large and lumbering. And then, as the crash and trickle of water
fell away, James heard voices as well. Echoing over the lake came shouting
and bellows of rage or pain, the distinct roar of a large and angry crowd.
“What’s happening?” Zane asked, his eyes wide, lit by the yellow
glow beyond.
James shook his head weakly, stunned and deeply afraid. He broke
his paralysis and bolted to the door, wrenching it open with a screech of
bent metal.
Something clanged against the wheelhouse just to the right of his
head. He barely registered it before the object clattered to the deck. He
glanced down at it. It was a spear with a rough-hewn stone point, green as
jade. Further down the ship, more clangs and thunks indicated an ongoing
attack.
All around, the lake was suddenly full of splashing figures. They
were unrecognizable in the dark, mere muscular shapes surfacing with arms
raised, hurling their weapons with frightening accuracy at the already
wounded Gertrude. Their war cries were piercingly shrill, screeching like
rusty gears.
“The Merpeople!” Rose cried, stumbling as she ran from the hold.

“They’ve gone totally berserk!”
“Not that they’re ever exactly friendly,” Scorpius added crossly
from behind, ducking as a spear spanged off the wheelhouse, leaving a deep
dent.
James stumbled into Rose, nearly knocking her back into Scorpius,
as the Gertrude suddenly surged forward, its bow rising against the waves.
“Hold on!” Zane called from inside the wheelhouse. “I don’t know
much about driving boats, but I’m pretty sure red means fast!”
James clambered to hold onto the open door, even as Rose grabbed
his arm for support. Inside the wheelhouse, Zane had one hand on a large
brass throttle, ramming it to its maximum. His face was wide-eyed and
hectic as he steered with his other hand, aiming for the fiery glow of the
castle. The ship listed harder as it steamed ahead, pitching James, Rose,
and Scorpius toward the outer railing and the rushing waves below. Cold
mist began to spray into their faces as the barrage of spears fell behind.
Struggling to hold on, Rose called, “Where you taking us!?”
“Um,” Zane shrugged a little manically. “Away!?”
The castle hove nearer with unlikely speed as the Gertrude
accelerated, rising onto the waves.
“Getting close to the docks, Walker,” Scorpius warned loudly.
“Yeah,” Zane nodded, scanning the console before him helplessly.
“Only boats don’t come with brakes, as far as I can tell. You all might want
to, you know, hold onto something.”
The bow of the Gertrude hove over the dock. James heard the crash
and splinter as the wooden structure crumpled beneath the hull. The ship
obliterated it without slowing. The shore was barely twenty yards away,
approaching with inevitable speed. Trees lined the rocky beach, dark
against the starry sky—and yet even now, James saw that the sky wasn’t
entirely clear. Just past the canopy of the Forest, low storm clouds boiled,
flashing silent bursts of lightning. The Gertrude had beaten the storm to
their destination, but it was raging relentlessly onward anyway, seeking its
target.
The Gertrude struck the rising beach with a screech and grind of
rocks under wood. The ship juddered upward, buckling James’ knees,
while momentum continued to carry it forward, even as the bow thrust into
the fringe of Forest, bashing between tree trunks and tearing away limbs.
The ship’s sideways list grew precipitous as it began to keel over, causing

James, Rose, and Scorpius to hang on desperately, lest they fall and be
crushed under the rolling hull. Finally, with a devastating crunch, the
Gertrude beached itself completely, crashing to rest against some unseen
impediment in the trees.
Zane half climbed, half fell out of the wheelhouse, clambering to the
railing where it now leaned low over the rocky shore. “Home sweet home,”
he announced breathlessly.
Much closer now, the noise of shouting voices and angry grunts
seemed to fill the forest.
“What’s happening here?” Rose nearly demanded, fear making her
voice strident. James couldn’t help thinking that she suddenly sounded a lot
like her mother.
“If I had to guess,” Scorpius said, climbing over the broken railing
and dropping to the beach below. “I’d say that the Centaurs have made
good on their promise. Friday’s magical quake was likely the last straw,
and now they are invading. Only things aren’t going as planned. They
haven’t breached the castle yet.”
“What about the Merpeople?” James asked, clambering after
Scorpius and helping Rose down behind him. “They aren’t partnering with
the Centaurs. Why are they attacking?”
Zane stumbled as he jumped to the beach. “Everything’s happening
at once. It’s not coincidence. It’s just the end.”
James shuddered at the idea, but it felt eerily apt. It did indeed feel
like the end.
“What now?” Scorpius said, turning back from the fiery glow
beyond the woods. “If the centaurs are being held back somehow, that
means we are as well.”
“Ah,” Zane said, brightening. “But the centaurs aren’t gremlins,
like us.” He glanced aside at Rose, who nodded fearfully.
“We know all the secret passages in,” she agreed. “The Quidditch
shed is probably the closest. Come on!”
Without looking back, she turned and dashed up the beach, skirting
the broken hull of the Gertrude, and into the trees.
As he ran to follow, James called, “But I thought the equipment
shed passage only worked if that was how you came out of the school to
begin with?”
“We fixed that in my third year,” Rose answered back, ducking

through bushes and leaping over knotted roots. “Scorpius and I spent a
whole Saturday leaving the school through the shed passage about a
hundred times in a row, coming back in through the main entrance every
time. We built up a cache of returns for whenever we needed them.”
James frowned at this as he ran. “How come I didn’t know about
this?”
“You were at Alma Aleron that year,” Zane called from behind.
“Not that we would have invited you anyway,” Scorpius suggested,
crashing along in the rear.
Twin spears of light suddenly intersected the students’ path, bobbing
wildly and accompanied by a throttling roar. Rose skidded to a halt,
braking herself against a tree, just as a large vehicle bounded over the path,
its headlamps glaring through the trees. It was some sort of off-road vehicle
with huge knobby tyres and gunmetal-grey sides. Voices called from
within, and James had a sense of pointing hands and excited direction.
“There, see?” a man’s voice could be heard from an open rear
window. “There’s not supposed to be anything here but miles of Forest!
But look yourself! It’s a huge bleedin’ castle! Just like the village that
popped up when we was hiking last week!”
The engine whined and strained over the uneven Forest floor. The
vehicle surged forward, crashing over brush, squirreling through the huge,
ancient trees.
Two more followed in its wake, moving faster and more
confidently. From his place behind a nearby tree, James thought he
recognized weapons in the passengers’ hands. Then, with sinking dismay,
he recognized the objects they were brandishing. They weren’t weapons,
but cameras.
“Not this again,” Zane said, rolling his eyes.
“Come on,” Rose called again, leaping ahead as the vehicles crashed
onward through the wood, crawling in the general direction of the castle
and the flicker of fire.
As the four neared the castle themselves and began to bypass it,
running along the edge of the Forest, they caught glimpses of a huge rabble
gathered against the seamless wall of fire. Centaurs moved in galloping
groups, orderly and ranked, their weapons raised.
“Merlin’s erected a defence,” James realized aloud. “That’s no
normal fire. It’s a fiendfyre boundary!”

“It won’t last,” Scorpius said, and then pointed as he ran. “And
what’s that?”
James saw it as well. “That’s no centaur,” he agreed with sinking
realization.
Gathered in their own knot, facing the centaurs against the wall of
magical flames, was a gaggle of the huge lumbering shapes that James had
glimpsed from the ship. They advanced haltingly toward the ranks of
centaurs, hunkering their massive shoulders around their tiny heads. They
were giants, dozens of them, in all different monstrous sizes.
“Grawp and Prechka!” Rose cried shrilly. “They came here on their
own, even though Hagrid warned them to stay away! And they brought
their whole tribe!”
Even in silhouette, James recognized the hulking figure of Prechka.
She shied away from the centaurs as they galloped toward her, then around
her feet, their weapons raised threateningly. Her potato-like head bobbed
and swiveled as she tried to see them all, tried to avoid their stamping,
teeming hooves. And then, horribly, she attacked. She was compelled
more by terror than anger. James could see it in the clumsy way that she
moved, the panicked lurch of her shoulders. She kicked, and one centaur
flew through the air, flailing all six of its appendages. Then, spastically,
Prechka hunkered, grabbed two more centaurs, one in each hand, and jerked
them up to shoulder height. With a massive lunge, she bashed them
together like a pair of meaty cymbals. Even over the roar of the fire and the
bellowing voices, James heard the horrible crunch of bones.
“No!” Rose called, stumbling to a halt and raising her hands to her
face, unable to tear her eyes away. “No, Prechka!”
“Leave her be!” Scorpius called, his voice suddenly commanding.
“The time for civility is past! It’s her skin or theirs! And soon it might be
ours! Keep running!”
“Holy hinkypunks,” Zane breathed in a high, scared voice. “That
was… brutal!”
Lights sprayed over the increasing melee and the vehicle from the
Forest burst into view, bouncing over the hillocks. It ground to a halt, its
brakes screeching, its body leaning on its springs. The passenger door burst
open and a man scrambled out in sudden panic, his eyes bulging up at the
giants. He scrambled backwards in terror, tripped and fell at the feet of a
stamping centaur. He glanced up at it and screamed, covering his head with

his arms.
The other two vehicles bounded forward in pursuit. The middle
vehicle crashed into the suddenly halted lead vehicle, nearly running down
the panicked passenger. Glass tinkled and voices shouted.
“This is beyond us!” Scorpius called urgently. “Go!”
Distracted and numb with terror, the group ran on again, even as the
giants fell fully to battle against the centaurs and the vehicle doors sprang
open, disgorging terrified Muggles and their clattering, forgotten cameras.
The fiendfyre raged along the Quidditch pitch, barely missing it but
engulfing the Slytherin grandstand, which was already reduced to a mere
blackened skeleton, roaring with flame. Running hard beneath the seething
light, Rose led the troupe toward the equipment shed, which sizzled and
smoked from its own proximity to the fire. Furnace heat swarmed across
the pitch, turning the air into writhing shimmers and baking the sweat on
James’ brow.
In the near distance, James noticed a flailing, writhing mass, boiling
with fiendfyre. His stomach fell as he realized that it was the Whomping
Willow. Sparks arose in swirling rafters as it heaved its flaming limbs, its
leaves glowing like coals as they burned away, transformed to swarming
cinders.
He tore his eyes away, grimly deciding not to point out the terrible
sight to the others.
Rose reached for the equipment shed’s door handle, and then jerked
her hand back in pain.
“Hot!” she gasped, cradling her burnt fingers.
Scorpius raised his arm, his wand already jutting from his fist.
“Convulsis!” he shouted, and the blast of light struck the door,
bashing it open. The inside was dark, much deeper than the tiny shed
itself. Cool air wafted blissfully out of it, rising from a rank of stone steps.
Scorpius led the way, running down into the subterranean corridor
below.
James gulped as he followed. Everything felt out of control. He
didn’t know what he intended to do. He didn’t know where Petra was, or
even if she was still alive. Chaos seemed to have fallen over the entire
world, throwing every imaginable obstacle and distraction in his way to
stop him.
His side ached as he ran into the cool, eerily quiet darkness. And

then light bloomed ahead as Scorpius reached the passage exit. The four
clambered out, pushing around the statue of Lokimagus the Perpetually
Productive, and into the glow of torchlight and a perfectly prosaic Hogwarts
corridor. No one was in sight, and yet voices could be heard echoing
distantly, shouting with alarm and urgency.
The school had not been vacated, it seemed. That’s why Merlin was
protecting it. But even he could not hold off the centaurs much longer.
As if on command, a huge boom shook the castle, raining grit from
the ceiling and shattering a nearby window. The centaurs were attacking
through the fiendfyre, though James couldn’t guess how.
“It’s all a distraction,” he said, turning to Zane, Rose, and Scorpius.
“I don’t know how or why, but we still have just one job, and that’s to find
Petra and warn her! If Odin-Vann and Judith get to her first…!”
“But how!?” Rose cried, stamping her foot in frustration. “We don’t
even know where she is!”
James drew a resolute breath and glanced at Scorpius. “We have to
find Merlin,” he said firmly. “He has Petra’s father’s brooch. Petra still
thinks she’s leaving our world forever, and she won’t go anywhere without
it. If we find Merlin, we’ll find Petra.”
“If we’re not too late already,” Zane shrugged and nodded. “And all
of this is just the opening act for the apocalypse.”
Drawing his wand and holding it at the ready, James turned and ran
down the corridor, heading in the direction of the main stairs and the
headmaster’s office. As he turned at the nearest junction, he nearly bowled
into George Muldoon, the Ravenclaw prefect. The tall boy caught James by
the shoulder, a look of terror and alarm bulging in his eyes before he
recognized him.
“Potter!” he exclaimed in consternation, “what are you doing down
here! We’re in lockdown state! Everyone to their common rooms! And
you, Weasley and Malfoy! And…!” he boggled at Zane. “And just who the
ruddy hell are you?”
“Zane Walker,” Zane said agreeably. “Normally I shake hands, but
we’re in a pretty big hurry. Next time, maybe? If there is a next time?”
With that, the troupe ran on again, leaving Muldoon to turn and
boggle after them, frantically calling their names.
They reached the stairs and turned to pelt up them, swinging around
the ballustrade for support. Another boom shook the castle and the

Heracles window cracked, disintegrated, and fell away in a rain of colorful
shards.
“That’s not magic,” Scorpius gasped, boggling at the broken
window. “Something is hitting us!”
“The giants,” Zane nodded. “They’re trying to get in any way they
can. Not to attack, but to get away from the centaurs.”
“Go!” James pressed, turning past the landing and continuing up the
stairs. “No time for anything else!”
They reached the third floor, James in the lead. He turned down
Gargoyle corridor, aiming for the spiral staircase at the end.
Another boom sounded, this one from directly next to James, and a
pillar keeled toward him, breaking into heavy chunks. James ducked and
stumbled, barely avoiding the collapsing stonework. Dust blew past him as
part of the ceiling came down with the pillar, choking the air and snuffing
the nearest lantern.
James scrambled to his feet and looked back, squinting into the
gritty dark. He was cut off from Scorpius, Rose, and Zane by the caved-in
ceiling.
“She knew that you would come,” a man’s voice said from behind
him. “I doubted her. But she knew.”
James wheeled back, so fast that he nearly lost his footing, and
jerked his wand wildly upright.
“Expeliarmus!” he gasped, and a bolt of light shot from his wand. It
was snuffed immediately, reduced to a swarm of dying sparks.
“Judith predicted that you would race the storm back. I was to wait
for you here, and be ready when you came. I shouldn’t have doubted her.
She’s rarely wrong.”
A dark figure stepped forward out of the shadows, coming between
James and the spiral stairs of the headmaster’s office. Even before his face
was visible, James recognized the gaunt shape of Donofrio Odin-Vann, his
wand held almost lazily, half-raised.
“Stupefy!” James cried, raising his wand up in his hand again.
The red spell flashed and snuffed itself barely a foot from his wand.
Odin-Vann was laughing to himself, his upturned wand streaming a faint
haze of purple.
“You know you cannot defeat me,” he chided. “Best not even to
try.”

“Where’s Petra?” James demanded, staring down the length of his
trembling wand. He gulped. “Is she still alive?”
“Petra isn’t your concern, James,” Odin-Vann answered, stepping
forward slowly. “She never was. You like to think she feels something for
you, don’t you? And yet it’s her that intended to leave you forever. That
must gall you. Does it gall you, James?”
James lowered his wand slowly in defeat. And then jerked it up
again and cried, “Expulso!”
The spell leapt across the distance between them, and exploded
against the shimmering shield charm that sprang, unbidden, from OdinVann’s raised wand. He stepped forward again, closing the distance
between them.
James backed up a step. His heel crunched on broken grit. “Are
you planning to kill me?”
“I don’t need to kill you,” Odin-Vann answered with a light shrug.
“The storm will kill you. It will follow you wherever you go. And if
somehow you manage to stay ahead of it, well…” he sighed and shook his
head. “This world only has a few hours left anyway.”
“Why are you doing this?” James demanded, lowering his wand
again, this time all the way. “I mean, I understand being bullied around and
all. Revenge makes sense, even if you seem to have gone pretty mental
with it. But why destroy the whole world?”
“Ah, but this is no longer my world, James,” the young man replied
breezily. “With Judith’s help, we can create an all new world. One crafted
in our own image. We have the key. And the key is our very own Petra
Morganstern. She will open the way for us. And then we will throw away
the key forever. No backsies.” He tittered.
James retreated another step. He chilled under the force of OdinVann’s madness, and yet a tiny surge of hope fanned out in his veins. Petra
was still alive. If only he could find her…
“Relashio!” he shouted, stabbing his wand up again and firing with
lightning speed.
Odin-Vann’s arm jerked up from the shoulder, following the force of
his wand, and a bolt of green flashed, snuffing James’ spell in mid-air. He
was laughing again, moving steadily closer.
“Petrificus Totalis!” James cried, putting all of the force he could
muster into the spell. “Levicorpus! Incarcerous! Convulsis!”

Each spell exploded and obliterated bare inches from his wand as
Odin-Vann’s jerked in his upraised hand, firing the prescribed counterjinxes of its own accord.
“You really don’t know when to quit, do you?” the young professor
laughed delightedly. “There’s that arrogance that I’ve come to so loathe in
people like you. The assurance that somehow, some way, you must win.
That you are the good one. That you are right. It’s truly unbearable, you
know. But it’s entertaining, at least.”
James strained forward with his wand, now only ten feet from the
approaching professor. He drew breath to call his next spell, resolving to
resort to unforgivable curses out of pure desperation, when a series of
footsteps suddenly sounded from behind Odin-Vann, clambering down the
spiral stairs of the headmaster’s office. They were heavy, and yet James
instinctively knew by the sound that they were not Merlin’s.
“James!” the figure’s voice called in surprise, clambering to a stop
at the base of the steps.
It was Ralph.
Odin-Vann’s left hand shot up and back, fisted on a second wand.
“Stay, Mr. Dolohov,” he ordered, his eyes not flinching from James. “There
is no need for you to share Mr. Potter’s fate.”
“That’s a laugh,” Ralph scoffed in a brittle voice. “Like any of us
are going to survive this night! I’ve been waiting for the headmaster for
almost an hour, but it doesn’t look like he’s coming back at all. Without
him, we’re pretty much done for.”
As he spoke, Ralph raised his wand and fired a nonverbal spell at
Odin-Vann. It was deep blue, arcing like electricity.
Odin-Vann’s left hand twitched, pulled his arm up, and fired the
counter-spell, obliterating Ralph’s attack.
The professor smiled at James, one wand pointed back at Ralph, the
other leveled at James’ chest. “Crucio,” he said, almost conversationally.
James flinched, but the spell wasn’t aimed at him. From OdinVann’s second wand, a belt of searing green struck Ralph and drove him
back against the stairs, where he crashed heavily, half across the steps,
jerking in agony. He gasped and tried to scream, but his chest locked and
his teeth clenched, reducing his cry to a strained, desperate groan.
“I meant to thank you, Mr. Dolohov,” Odin-Vann said over the
crackle of his spell. “You found the one potential flaw in my wand.

Nonverbal spells. Thanks to you, I have been able to calibrate and
overcome even that.”
“Stop it!” James shouted, raising his own wand again. And then,
before he could reconsider it, he repeated Odin-Vann’s spell: “Crucio!”
He had never attempted an unforgiveable curse, even on a practice
dummy. The green bolt that fired from his wand was weak, frayed, without
focus. Odin-Vann’s right arm flicked up with the force of his wand and the
counter-spell fired, easily extinguishing James’ curse between them.
Ralph rolled and tumbled off the steps to the floor, still smothered in
the grip of Odin-Vann’s Cruciatis spell. He gasped and groaned, and James
thought he was trying to form words, even through the blinding haze of
pain.
“NNNnn-nuh… nnnNIGHT!”
He forced the word through
helplessly gritted teeth.
Odin-Vann bared his own teeth at James and intensified his spell. It
pulsed lime green and Ralph screamed.
“Stop!” James shouted, his own wand still pointed at Odin-Vann
helplessly. It was no use. “You’ll kill him!”
“Everybody dies,” Odin-Vann said with sudden, grinning ferocity.
“Let’s just hope that they lived while they had the chance! I admit, I have
my doubts!”
Ralph writhed and arched his back on the floor. He gasped a
whistling breath and strained again, struggling to speak.
“Nuh… nnnNIGHT… Quh-QUIDDITCH!”
James frowned in terrified confusion, his fist aching on his useless,
outstretched wand. What could Ralph possibly mean? Was he going mad
with pain? Why in the world would he spend his last, desperate words
talking about something as inane and stupid as Night Quidditch?
The Cruciatus curse lanced into him, boiled over him, enveloped the
big boy in unspeakable, maddening pain.
And then, somehow, James understood. His mouth dropped open as
the realization washed over him. His mind raced, searched for exactly the
right option, the one final gambit that would either turn the tables or doom
them all. Resolved, he stabbed forward with his wand one last time.
“Osclauditis!” he shouted.
The spell was a lance of white. It struck Odin-Vann’s right shoulder,
and his arm snapped rigid, the elbow locking straight.

His eyes shot wide with shock. Jerkily, he looked down at his right
arm, and the wand in his hand, now pointed firmly and helplessly at the
floor. It hadn’t fired the counter jinx.
There was no counter jinx. Not for game magic. The bonefuse hex
could only be dodged, never countered.
The Cruciatus curse extinguished from Odin-Vann’s left-hand wand
as the professor’s concentration broke.
“How—!?” he began, raising his eyes back to James, but James
fired again.
“Novistenaci!”
The fingers of Odin-Vann’s left hand spasmed with the blast of the
Knuckler hex. The secondary wand they had been holding clattered to the
floor.
“How are you doing this!?” Odin-Vann demanded, his face turning
furious.
“Game magic,” James answered, narrowing his eyes, “doesn’t
appear in the Caster’s Lexicon.”
Odin-Vann roared with rage. He lowered his head and charged,
aiming to ram James physically, to tackle him back onto the ruined wall
behind him.
“Expeliarmus!”
This spell did not come from James, but from Ralph. James saw his
friend still sprawled on the floor before the headmaster’s stairs, but with his
head now raised, his wand outstretched and shaking weakly.
The wand in Odin-Vann’s right hand jerked up to deflect Ralph’s
spell. The professor’s shoulder and elbow, however, were still locked rigid
by the bonefuse hex. With a terrible, grating snap the bones broke,
wrenched upwards by the force of the enchanted wand as it performed its
duty.
The professor screamed and collapsed, even as his wand fired the
counter jinx, snuffing Ralph’s disarming spell. His broken arm went limp
again and he forced his fingers loose, dropping the wand before Ralph
could coax it into action again. He cradled his broken arm against his body
and faltered to the floor, moaning pathetically.
Ralph staggered to his feet and braced himself against the
headmaster’s stairs.
James lunged forward and grabbed both of the professor’s dropped

wands. With a decisive twist, he broke both wands at once and threw down
the pieces. They clattered senselessly.
“That was dead brilliant thinking, Ralph!” James exclaimed as he
ran to help his friend. “Are you all right?”
“Ungh,” Ralph moaned and clutched his head. “I don’t think I’ll
ever be all right again. Sincerely.”
“Everything’s gone completely upside down,” James declared, “I’m
sorry, Ralph. You were right all along about Odin-Vann.”
“You think?” Ralph wheezed, and laughed feebly.
“Have you seen Petra?” James asked earnestly. “Finding her is our
only chance. Odin-Vann and Judith mean to kill her and end everything.
He has some sort of delusion about becoming Judith’s new host and starting
an all new version of our destiny.”
“He can’t kill Petra,” Ralph shook his head, finally standing up
straight. “She has a Horcrux. He knows that better than anyone. And how
can he start any new destinies? The Loom is destroyed.”
“He’s the one that destroyed it,” James nodded darkly. “But no
matter what, Petra is the key to everything. I thought she might have come
here, to Merlin, looking for her father’s brooch.”
“Merlin’s been a little busy,” Ralph shrugged and nodded toward a
nearby window. “What with the whole world coming down on the castle
like a plague. Centaurs, Merpeople, Muggle explorers and news people. I
was looking for him myself, to finally tell him everything we know. He’s
here somewhere. Just not in his office.”
James’ face hardened and he raised his wand again. He turned back
to the decimated corridor and trotted to where Odin-Vann lay, his arm
broken and his wands destroyed.
Only the professor was no longer there.
“He disapparated or something,” Ralph said angrily, coming
alongside and glancing around. “Had to have.”
“Or she took him,” James muttered. “Judith. She needs him. He’s
to be her new host. Or her pet human. Either way, he’s essential to
whatever her plan is.”
The castle shook again, quaked violently with a sustained shock, but
this time the violence was accompanied by a gust of wintry, ice-flecked air.
It whistled through the broken wall and streamed through James’ and
Ralph’s hair.

James’ eyes widened. He glanced at Ralph.
“Petra!” they both said in unison.
“We have to apparate!” James added breathlessly. “The entrance
hall!”
Ralph nodded and swallowed hard. James could see that his friend
was nervous about testing his apparating skills under such conditions.
James gave him a bracing grip on the shoulder. “You know the
entrance hall as well as you know your own house. You’ve been there a
thousand times. You can do this, Ralph. On three!”
Ralph nodded, firming his jaw. “On three.”
“One…” James said.
“Two…” they both said together, gripping their wands in
preparation for whatever they would find waiting for them.
“Three!”

The world snapped away, whirled wildly, and reasserted itself with a
shock of speed and noise. James’ feet struck the stone floor of the entrance
hall and something immediately bounced off his head. He blinked,
stumbled backwards, and raised a hand to his brow, probing to see if he was
injured.
A muffin rolled at his feet. It appeared to be blueberry.
“Elf work is for elves!” a chorus of tiny, angry voices cried, and
more muffins sailed through the air. They pelted the walls, bounced from
portraits, pattered and rolled down the staircase steps.
“We have quite enough to handle at the moment without your little
elven uprising!” a shrill voice exclaimed. James turned to see Professor
McGonagall near the stairs, her wand raised warningly. A line of other
teachers stood with her, looking variously confused and impatiently
harried. “I will say this only once more!” McGonagall shouted. “All of
you, back to the kitchens for your own safety!”

“Safety is not our concern!” a tiny voice called back. James turned
to see Piggen, his face pained but resolved. “Without service for all of our
kind worldwide, death is a preferred option!” Turning to the line of elves
behind him, he yelled, “Muffins away!”
Another barrage of baked goods streamed through the air.
Dimly, James sensed Ralph pulling on his elbow, dragging him out
of the space between the professors and the elves. Zane, Rose, and
Scorpius huddled in the shadow of the stairs, their eyes wild.
“James!” Rose gasped, grabbing his other arm and pulling him into
the nominal protection of the balustrade. “What happened?”
“I saw Odin-Vann,” James answered as briefly as he could. “But
not Petra. She’s got to be nearby. We felt her magic at work.”
“We felt it, too,” Zane said, and pointed to the closed doors of the
great hall. “From in there. Sounds like a war-zone!”
James made to break away from the group, to run across the muffinlittered floor toward the great hall, when the main entrance doors blasted
inward next to him, breaking from their hinges, swinging and falling away
before a concussive shock. One of the falling doors barely missed James as
it slammed down, throwing up a cloud of stinging grit. Light glared and the
throttle of an engine roared. The gunmetal-grey off-road vehicle plowed
into the entrance hall, bouncing over the broken doors. Its windscreen was
smashed to a cloud of cracks and its front end was mangled almost
unrecognizable, singed black and smoking. Only one of the headlamps still
worked, stabbing its glare up at the staircase.
“Attack!” Piggen cried shrilly, and a barrage of biscuits, rolls,
scones, and even pots and pans arced toward the vehicle, bouncing and
clanging from its blackened and steaming bonnet.
“They drove their blasted vehicle through the fiendfyre boundary,”
McGonagall announced. “We’re breached! Hogwarts is breached!”
The vehicle’s doors sprang open and people began to tumble out,
running in all directions, their faces wild with terror.
From the darkness beyond the smashed-in entrance, shadows
moved. The clatter of hooves approached. Voices bellowed and shouted.
One of the Muggles did not run away. He stumbled into the centre
of the entrance hall, his figure illuminated brilliantly by the vehicle’s
headlamp. He was thin and tall, with angular features and sleek dark hair,
now mussed and wild. James recognized him immediately. It was the

rogue Muggle reporter from his first year, Martin Prescott.
“I knew it!” Prescott shouted hoarsely, triumphantly. He balled his
fists, raising them into the air. “I knew it wasn’t a dream! I was here! I
was here!”
McGonagall rolled her eyes impatiently and stunned him with her
wand. Prescott tumbled to the floor still grinning, his hands still fisted in
victory.
“Protego Maxima!” McGonagall called next, striding past the
smoking vehicle and aiming for the door. A burst of blue light formed a
shield. Behind her, Professors Shert, Votary, and Heretofore surged forward
and added their strength to the charm, defending against the approaching
centaurs.
The castle boomed again. The ceiling of the entrance hall cracked
along its entire length. Broken plaster and chunks of masonry rained
down. Portraits tilted and fell from the walls. Windows broke and
shattered all around.
“Potter!” One of the portraits commanded in a steely voice.
James turned to see a painting of a very ugly farmer standing in a
field of blooming Spynuswort. The farmer’s face was vaguely recognizable
beneath his wide-brimmed hat.
“Your brother is not in the castle,” the painted figure said quickly.
“Every other student is accounted for except him.”
“Albus?” James asked, his mind spinning.
“Albus Severus, my namesake,” the disguised portrait of Snape
said. “And our names are not all that we have in common. His loyalties are
divided. You must find him.”
James shook his head. “No, it’s Petra I have to find! She’s here, in
the Great Hall! I have to warn her!”
“No!” Snape insisted, his eyes blazing from the painting. “For once
in your insipid, reckless little lives would one of you Potters listen to me!?
The headmaster has divined the truth! Odin-Vann, whom you were lucky
enough to best, was the Architect. But your brother is the Ransom!
Without him, their plan fails! Find him right now, Potter! This is not about
his safety, but the balance of worlds!”
James was shaking his head, barely listening now. Another deep
shudder shook the floor and broke chunks from the ceiling. The Great Hall
doors wrenched open as a blast of icy wind and furious light exploded

through them.
James forgot about the portrait of Snape. He broke away from the
wall, angled around the smoking vehicle, ducked behind the defending
teachers, leapt the unconscious figure of Martin Prescott, and pushed
through the crack of the huge wooden doors.
The Great Hall beyond was dark, creaking, full of motion, a
wrecked shamble of shocking destruction.
Every window was broken, jagged with shards of glass and bent
metalwork. The ceiling was laced with cracks and missing huge chunks, its
enchantment flickering and fading, showing mere fractures of marching
storm clouds and approaching lightning. The floating candles spun and
bounced from the walls, many broken, most with their flames extinguished,
streaming ribbons of grey smoke.
The tables were forced against the walls, wrecked and smashed
together.
The rose window was intact, but flickering with fire and laced with
cracks.
In the centre of the floor, Merlin and Petra faced each other, each
breathing hard, each staring at the other with furious intensity. Merlin’s
staff was raised in his right hand, its runes pulsing with green light. Petra’s
hair was wild around her face, her left hand raised palm out, fingers
splayed. It was clear that the duel between them had descended to brute
attack, a stalemate between equal powers and level cunning.
“Go to your common room, James!” Merlin ordered, his voice
cracked, strained.
“Obey the headmaster,” Petra seethed, not taking her eyes from the
sorcerer before her.
James clambered forward instead, getting between the two, raising
both of his hands.
“Petra…!” he began.
The rose window exploded in a cloud of glass as something huge
bashed through it, taking its pillars and supports with it. The head table
broke under the weight of the object as it slammed down, and James dimly
saw that it was a tree trunk, freshly torn from the ground, its roots still
clotted with earth. A monstrous shape wielded the trunk, following it
through the raining debris, head down and shoulders hunched. It was a
giant, its eyes wild with fear, its hairy free hand fisted into a knuckly

boulder, ready to fight.
James suddenly wavered on his feet as a bolt of blinding blue shot
over his shoulder, emanating from Petra’s raised right hand. She had
launched an attack, but not at the giant. Taking advantage of the distraction,
she had aimed at the headmaster. The assault drove him backwards with
violent force. He struck the dais hard enough to break it, cratering the ruin
of the head table, right in the very shadow of the giant. The giant,
panicked, reached for the prone human figure at its feet. Its massive hand
closed over Merlin and pulled him from the destruction, along with a fistful
of broken table.
Merlin’s staff flashed and the giant recoiled, snapping its fingers
open again. Merlin tumbled, fell, and arrested his momentum in mid-air,
floating, his arms wide, his eyes glowing with fierce golden light.
But Petra was already advancing, redoubling her attack with
merciless intensity. She launched another barrage even as the headmaster
arrested his fall. The blast struck him in the chest and bashed him
backwards, past the invading giant, through the ruin of the rose window,
and into the flaming night beyond.
James’ knees trembled as inexplicable weakness overtook him,
making the world fade to grey. He remembered the same feeling when
Petra and Merlin had battled in the World Between the Worlds. Somehow,
James was like a battery in Petra’s presence, holding a reserve of her
power. She siphoned it from him through the invisible cord that connected
them, just as he had siphoned it from her during the debacle of the Morrigan
Web, right in this hall, and years before that, when he had first conjured the
cord of her power to save her very life.
He staggered in the smoky dark, his head spinning.
Petra strode forward purposefully, climbing the dais and raising one
hand to the giant without even looking. The giant blinked, tottered, and
crunched to its gigantic rump on the ruin of the table. Its head dipped to its
chest and the huge creature snorted a massive, grating snore, even as its
bare feet, as large and hard as crypt doors, slid forward, grating on broken
glass.
“Petra!” James shouted, clambering forward in her wake. “Petra,
wait!”
“I can’t wait, James!” she exclaimed back at him, halting and
glancing over her shoulder. “My time here is done! This world is in chaos,

and it’s all my fault! You can’t stop me, James! No one can be allowed to
stop me!” Her face was terrible in the darkness, illuminated only by the
writhing fiendfyre beyond the destroyed window. But her eyes shimmered,
and James saw that there were tears in them. She was afraid, and she was
driven by guilt, and she didn’t want to leave, and she knew that she had no
other choice.
“Don’t follow me, James!” she demanded, firming her gaze, her
voice hoarse and desperate. “I can’t be responsible for what happens to you
if you do!”
With that, she turned swiftly, leaving him behind and striding out
through the broken window, where she was obscured by a pall of smoke.
James struggled over the broken table, his feet slipping on broken
glass and destroyed stonework. When he finally climbed over the giant’s
feet and the ledge of the decimated window, he could see nothing but
smoking lawn and roaring flames beyond. He jumped to the bushes,
tumbled to the dry grass, and cast about in all directions, looking for any
sign of Petra, squinting against the blinding fire.
A figure appeared in the wall of flames, striding forward through
them, untouched. James stumbled toward the shape, shielding his own face
from the heat. When the figure resolved, stepping out onto the lawn and
marching back toward the broken window, James saw that it was Merlin.
The headmaster was bleeding and disheveled, his robes smoking,
but his face was stony with resolve.
“All able-bodied warriors,” he said as he walked, and his voice
suddenly boomed, shaking the air and waking echoes all around. “Seal the
students in their dormitories where they will be unharmed by those
invading. Then, come to me in the entrance hall. The end of our world is
upon us if we are not swift and committed to our duty. The villainess has
escaped, but we shall track her. I shall summon those who can best assist
us, Aurors and harriers alike. Come now and be ready to kill or be killed,
for this is our final moment.”
He made to pass James, not even looking down at him.
“Headmaster,” James gasped, turning to catch up to him. “Merlin!”
“She has captured the brooch,” Merlin said in a low, grave voice.
He stopped but did not turn back. “Nothing stands in her way now. The
Architect has done his work. And the Ransom shall soon do his. You
should have told me what you knew while it yet mattered.”

James had no answer for that. He looked up at the headmaster’s
broad back, speechless, wounded, and afraid.
Merlin still did not look back at him. Instead, he tapped his staff to
the ground and vanished in a crack of disapparation, leaving only stormy
wind, lightning, and roaring fiendfyre in his wake.
A sense of deep, stunning loss filled James like lead. He stared at
the space where Merlin had stood only moments before. His mind reeled,
stymied with uncertainty.
Merlin would track Petra, he and any others prepared to accompany
him. McGonagall would be among them, as would Debellows and
Heretofore and any number of other teachers. Perhaps even his father and
Viktor Krum and the rest of the Aurors and harriers, if they could be roused
in time. James thought it very likely. They would leave the students locked
and shielded in their dormitories, trusting that the centaurs would honour
their word and not attack unless attacked first.
Merlin and those with him would abandon Hogwarts in pursuit of
Petra, since she, they believed, was the cause and source of the chaos that
had befallen the world. They would find her and go to war with her. She
would kill them all, or they would succeed in cutting her down.
If Judith and Odin-Vann didn’t succeed in that endeavor first.
It was just like James’ dream, years earlier. They were coming to
destroy Petra, and they wouldn’t waste time on words.
And with that, a sense of preternatural calm settled over James.
Because he knew exactly what he had to do. After all, he had already done
it, in a manner of speaking. He had lived it once already, five years earlier,
in that strange and prophetic vision.
He closed his eyes and imagined it, summoned every recollection of
that long-ago dream. He remembered a freshly dug grave. He remembered
Albus offering the young woman, Petra, his wand. It was necessary, James
now understood. For Petra no longer had a wand of her own, having
broken and abandoned hers years earlier. Sorceresses used their bare hands
to perform magic. Unless, that was, they needed to cast a particularly
unique spell that relied on a wand.
A spell like the Dark Mark.
Because Petra had stopped resisting the evil of the Bloodline. She
was channeling it, using it, tapping into the conviction and resolve that only
the last shred of Voldemort could provide. And now, tonight, she would

finally embrace it. She would fire the Dark Mark into the sky over the
cemetery—was probably doing so at this very moment, announcing her
final, damning choice.
Whatever terrible evil that such a choice entailed.
James squeezed his eyes shut tighter. He envisioned the cemetery;
his grandparents’ leaning headstones; the freshly dug grave like a blot of
ink under the stormy dark. He focused, firmed his grip on his wand, drew a
deep breath, held it…
And flexed the mental muscle of disapparation.
With a hard crack, he vanished, just as Merlin had done moments
before.
Neither would return to the same Hogwarts ever again.

24. THE BLOOD OF DEAREST LOVE
Somehow, amazingly, James sensed the presence of the Dark Mark
in the split-instant even before he reapparated. The spell was an emerald
chill in the void, like the depths of a moss-choked well. He passed through
it somehow as the world resolved around him, depositing him onto a windscoured hilltop, beneath the hulking sprawl of a dead tree. He faltered and
fell, never yet having apparated such a distance, and unaccustomed to the
strange inertia of it. Dry grass collected him, blew and whipped about his
face, but he scrambled to his hands and knees immediately, disoriented yet
breathless with panic. There was no time left. It was probably too late
already. He looked around wildly, trying to make sense of his surroundings.
The moon still glowed here, pale yellow on the horizon,
unobstructed by the imminent storm. Next to James, the dead tree reached
out of the earth, gnarled and twisted, like a giant arthritic hand with a
hundred fingers.
Beyond this, just visible in the pale moonlight, sprawled a very old
cemetery. Its headstones leaned like rotten teeth, embraced within the
confines of a weed-choked iron fence. A decorative arch marked the
entrance. Above this, still rising against the approaching storm clouds, was
the ghastly huge skull, phantasmic and terrible, of the Dark Mark. Its jaw
was unhinged, open in a silent scream. From the gaping mouth, a spectral
snake poured out, uncoiling, opening its own fanged jaws in a vicious hiss.

“No!” James barked, but his voice came as barely a dry husk, lost in
the buffet of the wind. Using the ancient dead tree for support, he
blundered to his feet and pelted down the hill, under the crooked arch of the
gate, and into the ranks and rows of old headstones.
He heard voices, indistinct on the wind. And then he saw them.
Albus and Petra stood on a low rise, in the corner of the marching
fence, their shoulders and heads illuminated from above by the eerie green
light of the Dark Mark. Near their feet was an open grave, next to a neat
pile of fresh earth.
“Stop!” James shouted desperately, flinging out a hand to them,
forgetting that his wand was still gripped in it. It would look like a pose of
attack. “Both of you! I know what you think you have to do, but it doesn’t
have to be this way! Albus, don’t let it end like this!”
Albus saw him, heard him, but ignored his brother. Even from this
distance, James could see the expression of scowling resolve on his
brother’s face—the expression that he’d worn almost exclusively over the
past few weeks, silent and sullen as he haunted the Slytherin table in the
Great Hall and the edges of the corridors, lost in his own dark musings. It
wasn’t simply that he was brokenhearted about his break up with Chance
Jackson. James saw it now for what it was. His brother had been steeling
himself up for something, preparing for some horrible duty that he believed
was his alone to bear. Had Odin-Vann told him even before he’d told
Petra? Had he exploited Albus’ natural inner darkness, preyed on his
teenage melodrama?
Either way, Albus was the Ransom, ready to give up everything for
the sake of the whole world.
Across the shadowy, wind-blown distance, Albus turned aside to
Petra. She had his wand in her hand. Slowly, reluctantly, she leveled it at
him.
“Do it,” Albus insisted calmly, his voice thin and small, carried on
the wind.
“No!” James exclaimed, as loudly as he could. He ran forward, but
stopped again as Petra looked at him, her eyes bright and intent, but clouded
with blind determination. She would indeed do it, James saw. He halted
again, holding both hands up now, raised in a warning gesture. “The rest
are coming!” he heard himself cry out, “and they won’t waste time on
words! We only have a few seconds!” He switched his gaze to his brother.

“Albus, don’t be a fool!”
“I’m sorry,” Albus muttered. He wasn’t speaking to James, or even
to Petra. He almost seemed to be speaking to the nearby graves, as if he
was disappointing them somehow. He turned and nodded his assent to
Petra.
“Petra!” James yelled frantically, and started forward again,
coming with thirty feet of the pair. The storm was blowing in with eerie
speed, reaching to blot the moon behind a great, creeping wing of clouds.
Wind whipped the grass and rattled the tree branches. “Please don’t! This
isn’t who you really are!”
“You’re right, James,” Petra said, her eyes going cold, dead with
resolve as she turned to him. Along with her gaze, the wand in her hand
swiveled as well, swinging away from Albus, coming around to point at
him instead, moving with slow, unmistakable purpose. “As of tonight, I
will be known by an entirely different name. I am Morgan now. And since
you came after all, despite all of my warnings, I’m afraid it must be you
who will die for my cause. Brave Albus was your willing substitute, your
surrogate. For his blood is your blood, and therefore able to satisfy the dark
magic of the dimensional portal. But now… you are here. And I can’t deny
what fate demands.” Tears fell down her cheeks, but her gaze didn’t waver,
nor did the wand in her hand. “I’m so, so sorry, my love.”
“No!” Albus cried, and lunged with both hands, even as Petra’s face
crumpled and the wand in her hand exploded with vivid green light.
James felt the power of the spell as it blasted toward him,
illuminating the graveyard, spraying inky shadows in a radius behind each
and every headstone, every individual blade of grass. The killing curse
arced across the distance between them and James watched it come, as if
time had become plastic, allowing him to stretch his final instant into
patient infinity. He saw Albus’ hands on Petra’s wrist, saw the tears wet on
her cheeks, her mouth pulled into a frown of wretchedness, her eyes
squeezed shut, unable to watch.
And James thought, it’s OK. I’m glad to be the one to serve Petra.
Even if it means my death. Even if she’s wrong, and killing me won’t make
a dimensional portal, as Odin-Vann surely told her. At least it means that
Albus doesn’t have to be the Ransom. She tried to save me. She loved me
by sending me away. But it was always supposed to be me here in the
graveyard with her, not Albus. If dying is serving her, even if it’s based on a

lie and a mistake… then I’m glad to do it.
The killing spell struck and exploded. James felt a spray of grit
pepper his face and hair, faltered backward a step with the force of the blast,
and then felt himself fall backwards, almost gently, landing in a drift of
heather and weeds. And yet, even as he stared up at the terrible glow of the
Dark Mark, he sensed that he was not dead, or even particularly hurt.
Dazed, he pushed up onto his elbows and raised his head. Directly ahead of
him, a headstone tottered, crumbled, and fell apart, still fuming with green
sparks. Albus’ intervention had been just enough to spoil Petra’s aim,
sending the killing curse into the gravestone instead of James’ chest.
And then, in the breathless silence that followed, chaos broke out all
around the cemetery.
A sequence of piercing cracks echoed from every direction and
figures apparated into place, surrounding the cemetery and moving
immediately into defensive positions. They hunkered behind trees,
crouched behind tombstones and mausoleums. There were six of them, and
then ten, and then more than a dozen.
“Ware!” a deep voice, Merlin, exclaimed from the darkness near the
dead tree. “A killing curse has been fired!”
“Waste no time on Stunning,” another voice commanded. James
had a terrible intuition that this was his father. “But be sure at whom you
aim! Innocent people may be present!”
A woman’s voice cried, “I see her! Northeast corner!”
Spells exploded across the graveyard, illuminating it in deadly
firework colours.
Albus reached for Petra, but she darted away from him, approaching
James at a frantic run. He cringed away from her in sudden fear, but she
dropped the wand as she came, running between sizzling bolts of light. As
she reached him, she tumbled to her knees and fell upon him.
“You’re alive!” she gasped, and moaned with fear, and hugged him
to her.
“Yeah,” he said weakly against her shoulder. “Sorry about that.”
“No!” she said, and squeezed him harder. “I let Albus ruin my aim.
I didn’t have the strength to do what I must! I’ve failed everything! It’s all
my fault!”
He hugged her back, and she seemed to go limp in his arms, either
with relief or hopelessness. He supposed, under the circumstances, that

they might both be the same thing.
“Odin-Vann lied to you,” he said—or at least began to. Halfway
through the sentence, a streak of orange light struck a nearby obelisk,
destroying its base. It crumbled, broke away, and began to topple. James
saw its looming shadow in the instant before it struck. With every ounce of
his strength, he pushed Petra, throwing her away from him and out of the
obelisk’s path. It struck him on the shoulder, crushed him down beneath it
so hard and fast that he barely even felt it. Darkness plummeted over him,
but not the darkness of unconsciousness. He was mashed into the weeds
and heather, face down, his upper body suddenly pinned beneath a
monstrous, cold weight, as if a giant was standing on his shoulders.
“James!” Petra screamed, her voice brittle with horror and fear, but
the sound was distant, strangely unimportant, like a thing heard on a
wireless in someone else’s house. Still, some deep, buried part of James’
mind hated to hear Petra upset. He tried to call out to her, to tell her it was
all right. But no breath came to his crushed lungs. When he opened his
mouth, only blood came out, hot and sticky, tasting like copper.
He knew, with only vague interest, that he was probably dying,
crushed under the fallen monument.
But then, blissfully and suddenly, the weight was gone. His chest
spasmed, gasped for air, and pain came instead. He felt the splintering
grind of his ribs, sensed tearing as the broken bones punctured things deep
inside his body.
“No!” Petra screamed, this time with low, furious emphasis.
There was a rush of terrible wind. A sound like shattering crockery.
And then, a series of whumps, thumps, crashes, and distant cries.
“Minerva!” a voice bellowed.
“Hardcastle is down!” a woman called breathlessly.
“Fall back!” His father’s voice, panicked and desperate.
James felt himself lifted from the ground, gently, and yet another
pall of pain wracked his body.
Blearily, he sensed movement all around. Large, heavy objects
whirled around the cemetery like a cyclone, bashing through trees, clanging
from the broken fence. They were tombstones, monuments, mausoleum
doors, iron gates, all wrenched loose and powered by Petra’s vengeful will,
forming an impassable maelstrom.
And yet her eyes were soft, pained with regret as she looked up at

him. James realized that he, like the tombstones and monuments, was also
being held aloft in Petra’s sorceress grip, but tenderly, as if gravity had
simply forgotten about him for a moment. Dimly, he realized that blood
was wetting his shirt, cooling fast in the stormy wind.
Petra studied him, seemed to look into him. And then, using the
powers that were unique to her, she began to mend him. He felt a tingle and
then gasped, more in surprise than pain, as his ribs shifted back into place,
releasing his lungs from their broken death-clench. The ruptures deep
inside his body first went numb, and then warmed as the pain faded away.
Tentatively, he took a breath. His chest expanded, drew air, and his head
swam.
“That was stupid of you, James,” Petra said quietly, affectionately,
as she settled him back to the grass, coming to meet him. The cyclone of
headstones still swam all around, rushing and surreal. “I could have
withstood the falling stone, and protected you from it.”
“I didn’t think about it,” James whispered, buckling slightly as
gravity collected him again. “I just acted.”
“That’s you in a nutshell,” she said, and smiled wanly.
She reached out to him, placed a hand on his chest. His shirt was
still soaked with blood. It stuck to her palm greased it with red.
James looked down at her. Her own face was bloody. It was a
shocking sight to see. Something, probably a hunk of the falling obelisk,
had struck her temple and cut it. Blood trickled from beneath her hair,
down the line of her cheek, and dripped from her chin. Falling stone might
not be capable of killing her, but she could still be cut.
She was still just human enough to bleed.
He cupped her cheek, felt the warm wetness of her blood against his
fingers, tried to wipe it away from her skin.
She took her hand from his chest and looked down at it. Her palm
was slick and tacky with his blood. With her head still lowered, she looked
up at him with her eyes. There was a disconcerting, calculating look in her
gaze, as if she wanted to say something, but didn’t quite dare.
An object glimmered mildly on the lapel of her jumper. James
glanced down at it, saw that it was her father’s brooch, the identical twin of
the one that had fallen into the ocean four years earlier.
Without a word, Petra raised her head. Keeping her bloody right
hand raised, she turned, as if facing the incoming storm.

“Claudicatis in æternum mortiferum!” Her voice was terrible,
deafening as thunder, yet clear as birdsong.
Lightning cleaved the sky. It lanced through the skull of the Dark
Mark, brightening it, and struck the earth immediately before Petra. The
blast propelled James backward, toppling him again into the mass of
heather and weeds. The lightning did not strike and vanish, however, but
remained locked in place, caged between earth and sky, rioting within itself,
crackling with a voice of doom.
“Petra!” James shouted, but his voice was virtually inaudible
beneath the noise.
She didn’t hear him, or chose to ignore him if she did. But she did
look back. Against the blinding, boiling glare, her face was a mere
silhouette. Storm wind tore at her hair, flailed it about her face as she
turned back to him one last time. She tried to smile. It was a sad, pathetic
attempt. Her eyes sparkled with regret.
And then, with a shuddering breath and squared shoulders, she faced
the magical portal that she had conjured, stepped forward, and walked into
its violent glare. It swallowed her up with an explosion of blinding light
and hurricane-force icy wind.
The blast flattened James, bowled away in every direction.
All around, the maelstrom of stone and iron fell away, crashing to
the ground, bereft of its mistress.
“No,” James said again, no longer shouting, barely whispering. He
stared at the crackling, captured bolt of lightning, the magical portal, now
empty. It hadn’t vanished with Petra, but the Dark Mark above it had.
James scrambled to his feet, made to move forward into the bolt, to
follow Petra, but a hand grabbed his shoulder. He didn’t see whose it was
and didn’t care. He twisted to throw it off, his eyes still locked on the
writhing fork of light.
“James!” a voice shouted, and the hand yanked him harder, jerking
him backwards. Still James fought it, lashing out, struggling to bat the
grasping hand away.
More hands gripped him, tugged him, wrestled him back.
“If you go into the portal without the sigils,” the voice exclaimed
breathlessly, “you’ll be killed instantly! Stop fighting us, you great idiot!”
James finally blinked and turned, as if snapping out of a trance. He
found himself looking into the face of his brother, Albus.

“She’s gone,” another voice said, this one female. James glanced
aside, still stunned, and saw Rose holding onto his shoulder. Beside her
was Ralph. Scorpius and Zane stood on Albus’ other side, their eyes wide
and haunted.
“What happened?” James asked in a dazed voice, sensing that
somehow things were worse than even he knew.
Ralph swallowed hard. “Once we heard where everyone had gone,
we followed. Rose side-along apparated with Zane. We ran into the
graveyard and hit the ground when the spells started. The others
retreated…” he said, and then shook his head. “And then, all of them…”
“They’re gone,” Zane said, his eyes bald with shock, as if he didn’t
quite believe it himself. “The flying stones took out some of them. Maybe
they were just knocked out… maybe…”
“Dad!?” James asked, turning to Albus.
Albus shook his head. “I don’t know. When you got hurt, Petra
snapped. The whole place went berserk. And then, when she conjured the
portal, she sent some sort of… force rushing out over the whole countryside
in every direction. We were just inside the fence, hunkered down and
hiding. But everybody outside the graveyard, they just… vanished!”
“Puff of smoke,” Rose said, her voice small and terrified.
“It was a defensive thing,” James said, looking from face to face.
“She didn’t know what she was doing!”
Scorpius met James’ eyes, his face stolid.
“I don’t think
Morganstern did it at all,” he said with low emphasis. “And I don’t think it
stopped when it vanished her attackers.”
James felt slowly chilled to the bone as the reality of Scorpius’
words settled into place.
“It wasn’t Petra’s power that caused it,” he whispered, turning back
to the flashing, crackling lightning bolt. “It was… a sort of shockwave of
finality. It started right here, the moment that she opened her portal. It was
the last crashing footstep that brought the whole house of reality down.”
“But that means,” Rose said in a quavering voice, “the shockwave is
still spreading, still swallowing up everything as it goes, extending over the
whole earth!”
“Over the whole universe,” Zane exhaled bleakly, looking up at the
falling dark.
The storm still boiled above, thickening and groaning with thunder.

But everything else beyond the graveyard was descending slowly into
black, slipping away like things behind a velvet veil.
“Petra’s plan didn’t work,” Rose slumped, horrorstruck.
“It was never meant to work,” Ralph countered, anger tightening his
voice.
Albus shook his head. “But it had to!” he exclaimed, fear and
frustration raising his voice. “She had all the elements! I didn’t think it
would work without killing me or James, but his blood alone must have
been enough!”
“What elements?” Scorpius asked, his eyes sharpening.
Rain began to fall all around, speckling the graves with fat, heavy
drops. Wind scoured the weeds and grass, growing restless even as
everything beyond the fence drifted into seamless dark. The lightning
portal offered the only illumination, dimming by degrees with each passing
second.
“The three sigils!” Albus cried over the growing wind, throwing up
his hands. “Odin-Vann made Petra and I both memorize them so we
wouldn’t forget! There was the token of generation, the key of an alternate
world, and the blood of dearest love! We came here, dug up Petra’s
grandmother’s grave and took a lock of her hair. That was the token of a
previous generation. She had the brooch from Morgan’s original universe.
That was the key from an alternate world. And then, well, she was
supposed to kill me.”
Rose looked appalled. “You were willing to die for her portal!?”
Zane boggled. “You were her dearest love?”
Albus flopped helplessly to a seat on a broken gravestone. “James
is the one she loves, although I never could imagine why. She couldn’t
bring herself to kill him, though, so I volunteered. She asked me to help,
after all. A few weeks ago, Odin-Vann told me what that might mean. I
wouldn’t do it for him. But for Petra....”
“Odin-Vann knew it was his plan all along,” Zane nodded dourly.
“Even before the Archive was destroyed and he told Petra about this one
last option.”
“I was close enough to be the final of the three sigils,” Albus
shrugged, “being of the same blood as James. So yeah, I was willing to die
in this world, for Petra, but not in any forever sort of way. I’m no martyr.
Petra said that if she did her part right, we would get a sort of alternate

destiny instead of this one. None of this bad stuff would have happened.
I’d be alive in that other destiny, and we’d probably never even remember
this version of events.”
“So, when she got my blood on her hand,” James wondered aloud,
“she knew that it might be enough to open the dimensional portal. After all,
if she hadn’t healed me, I probably would be dead right now. She called the
incantation, and it worked.”
Zane gave a low whistle. “A one-way ride to the other side…”
“But why did this part need to happen at all!?” Rose moaned, her
eyes wide and her mouth turned down in misery. “Our parents! The whole
world! All breaking away into nothing! Whatever portal Petra opened and
went into, it sure didn’t change anything! Why even make her do it!”
“Everything Odin-Vann said was a lie!” James exclaimed, suddenly
filled with a sort of bereft rage. “He just wanted her busy so he and Judith
could work their plan behind her back! He probably forced her to conjure a
portal into nothing just to end her!”
“No,” Ralph suddenly said, his voice low. His eyes bulged in
thought, and he reached out in the lowering dark, groping, grabbing onto
James’ arm. “No! He didn’t lie about everything! At least… not about one
thing!”
“But…” James blinked, turning aside to his friend. “You said…
nothing Odin-Vann said could be trusted. And you were right. He was a
liar and a traitor from the start.”
Ralph was shaking his head in wonder, still staring at nothing, deep
in thought. “There was one thing he didn’t lie about. Because he didn’t
really mean to say it! He let it out without even thinking. And then, just as
quickly, he covered it up. Don’t you remember?” His eyes finally focused
and he turned to James.
Urgently, Albus demanded, “Out with it, Dolohov.”
“Rose,” Ralph said, turning aside to her. “Yesterday when we all
met up on the Gertrude, you asked Odin-Vann where Petra could go to
accomplish her task, where destiny was still intact and her choices would
still matter. Do you remember what he said?”
Rose frowned at him in the dark, her eyes wide and stricken.
“The past,” James answered softly, realization dawning on him. “I
remember. He let it slip, and then glossed over it, saying that he meant
some place that Petra had once been to, someplace important to her. But

that was just a cover up. Because the past is where he and Judith planned to
go all along…!”
Ralph nodded slowly, somberly. “He never intended for Petra to
conjure a portal to Morgan’s dimension. He meant to use her to conjure a
portal through time. As a sorceress, she’s the only one powerful enough to
do it! Whatever he and Judith mean to do, whatever new destiny they
intend to create, it has to be done back before destiny was shut down.
When choices still mattered!”
“Before all of this happened,” Rose said faintly.
“We have to follow her!” James cried, rousing and stepping toward
the lightning portal again, even as it thinned, still fading.
“We can’t!” Albus said, grabbing his brother’s shirtsleeve again. “I
already told you! Anyone who enters the portal without the three sigils is
killed instantly! It’s dark magic! It requires payment!”
“Here you go,” Scorpius said, approaching and taking James’ hand,
dropping something onto his open palm.
James glanced down, his mind spinning, and saw a pair of old black
spectacles resting on his hand. They were heavy, the lenses fogged with
dust. He looked up at Scorpius again. The blonde boy shrugged and
twirled his wand.
“Accio casket,” he said simply. “I saw where this was headed and
ran back to visit your grandparents’ graves. They’re right over there in the
corner where these two started out.” He tilted his head toward Albus.
“Those are your dead grandfather’s spectacles. I doubt they’re your
prescription, though.”
Ralph glanced quickly from Scorpius, to Rose. “What about the
other two sigils? A relic from some other dimension? Where we going to
find something like that?”
“Holy hinkypunks…!” Zane suddenly announced, raising his
eyebrows in an epiphany of inspiration. He glanced around at Ralph, then
Zane, his eyes wild with wonder. “I never really got around to returning it
to the museum in the Tower of Art after we used it last fall! I’ve just been
carrying it around, too wary to leave it home alone, but too lazy to take care
of it!” He dug in the pocket of his jeans and produced a largish, silvery
object. James’ mouth dropped open at the sight of it.
“The unicorn’s horseshoe!” he gasped. “You’ve just been carrying it
around in your pocket all this time?”

“Horseshoes are good luck where I come from!” Zane shrugged and
bulged his eyes, and spread his palms, one of which still held the
miraculous horseshoe. “And for once procrastination is a good thing,
right?!”
James stuffed his grandfather’s spectacles into his pocket as Zane
handed him the ancient silver shape. It was cold and very heavy in his left
hand.
“But,” he asked, still looking down at the gently glowing object,
“what about the blood of dearest love?”
Rose reached and grabbed James’ right hand where it hung at his
side. She raised it, showing the drying smear of red that still pasted his
fingers.
“Petra’s blood!” she rasped, her eyes wild with amazement. “You
touched her bleeding face! I saw you do it from my hiding place, right
before she went through the portal!”
James looked at Petra’s blood on his hand. It still glistened red
wherever it hadn’t already dried to a sticky maroon. Freshening drops of
rain pattered down, wetting it again.
“You have the three sigils!” Albus called over the increasing roar of
the storm, forcing James to look up into his face. “Only you can follow
Petra through!”
“Go, James!” Zane said, pushing his friend forward. “Go stop
them! Don’t let them win!”
“Save Petra,” Rose added breathlessly.
“Save bloody everybody,” Scorpius countered.
Ralph gripped James by the shoulder. “You can do it, mate. This
battle is all yours.”
James nodded helplessly. “Just like the dryad said.”
He turned to the lightning portal. It still crackled and writhed,
captive between heaven and what remained of earth. But it was dimming,
fading even as he watched, dying away with the rest of the world—with the
rest of the known universe. The only thing that remained was the storm
overhead. It condensed, descending into a roar that thickened the very air,
lowering over James, seeking him relentlessly.
James drew a deep, shaking breath. With his dead grandfather’s
glasses in his pocket, the silver horseshoe in his left hand, and Petra’s blood
painting his right, he stepped forward.

The lightning portal was thinning, yet somehow still blindingly
bright. It’s cursed light filled his eyes, blotted out the endless, hungry dark
beyond.
He stepped forward, felt power prickle through his hair, caress his
cheeks and shoulders like electric tentacles. He closed his eyes.
And then, suddenly, the portal enveloped him.
His next step took him out of the world, out of time, and into
forever.

25. THE TIME BETWEEN THE TIMES
“Hurry it up, Petra, and don’t let Noah’s brother see you.”
It was Ted Lupin’s voice, young and blithe, untainted by worry.
The girl nodded, brushing past James as the portrait of the Fat Lady
swung open to reveal the fire-lit glow of the common room. James began
to follow her in when Ted threw an arm around his shoulder, turning him
around and bringing him back out onto the landing.
“My dear James, you can’t imagine we’re going to let you toddle off
to bed at such an early hour, do you? There are Gryffindor traditions to
think about, for Merlin’s sake.”
“What?” James stammered. “It’s midnight. You know that, do
you?”
“Commonly known in the Muggle world as ‘The Witching Hour’,”
Ted said instructively. “A misnomer, of course, but ‘The Witching and
Wizarding Pulling Tricks on Unsuspecting Muggle Country Folk Hour’ is
just a bit too long for anyone to remember. We like to call it, simply,
‘Raising the Wocket’.”

Ted was leading James back toward the stairs, along with three other
Gryffindors. “The what?” James asked, trying to keep up.
“Boy doesn’t know what the Wocket is,” Ted said mournfully to the
rest of the group. “And his dad’s the owner of the famous Marauder’s
Map. Just think how much easier this would be if we could get our hands
on that bit of skullduggery.” Turning back to James, he said, “Let me
introduce you to the rest of the Gremlins, a group you may indeed hope to
join, depending on how things go tonight, of course.” Ted stopped, turned
and threw his arm wide, indicating the three others skulking along with
them. “My number one, Noah Metzker, whose only flaw is his unwitting
relationship to his fifth-year prefect brother.”
Noah bowed curtly at the waist, grinning.
“Our treasurer,” Ted continued, “if we ever manage to come across
any coin, Sabrina Hildegard.”
A pleasant faced girl with a spray of freckles and a quill stuck in her
thick reddish hair nodded to James.
“Our scapegoat, should such services ever be required, young
Damien Damascus.”
Ted gripped the shoulder of a stout boy with heavy glasses and a
pumpkin-like face who grimaced at him and growled.
“And finally, my alibi, my perfect foil, everyone’s favorite teacher’s
favorite, Ms. Petra Morganstern.”
Ted gestured affectionately to the girl who was just returning from
the portrait hole, her long dark hair framing a face that James immediately
memorized, recognizing straight away that she was soon to become the
solar centre of his universe, although he barely knew how or why. She met
his gaze and smiled, her eyes twinkling but deep with hidden secrets.
She was so young, so seemingly carefree. James had no idea what
lay beneath that easy, pretty smile.
Except that he did.
Both of her parents were dead, her father at the hands of vengeful
Azkaban guards, killed for dark secrets they insisted that he was keeping,
her mother in childbirth, dying even as Petra’s first cries met the world.
Now, Petra lived with her grandfather and his hateful, vicious, Muggle wife,
Phyllis, whose bullying even extended to her own mentally handicapped
daughter, young Izzy Morganstern, whom Petra loved like a sister and
protected as best she could.

“How is this happening?” James asked Petra as she moved to join
the rest of the Gremlins.
Only they were alone now. The other Gremlins walked on into the
past, their voices fading. The portrait of the Fat Lady drifted into shadow
and the corridor vanished away into darkness, becoming a damp cavern, hot
with pressure. A pool flickered nearby, illuminated from within by eerie
green light. Petra was wearing a yellow dress now, almost impossibly frilly
and stiff with layers. Her makeup was streaked and running with tears,
although her eyes were clear, unhaunted.
“You followed me,” she stated with a sort of weary, disapproving
affection. “James, I really just don’t know what to do with you.”
He shrugged and moved next to her, looking around. “Where are
we? Do you know?”
She glanced about, used the back of her hand to wipe a streak of
mascara from her cheek. Only, as she did so, the Chamber of Secrets
blurred, dimmed, and grew huge. The floor became the wooden planks of a
dock. A woodland lake spread away toward a misty forested shore. The
gazebo wasn’t there. Or, it was, only long since fallen away, sunken to the
dark depths.
“It’s not a where,” Petra said, turning alongside James and taking his
hand, walking to the end of the dock with him. Together, they looked down
toward the hidden, phantom shape below the waves. Petra wore a plain
calico dress now, warmed by a pale blue hooded jumper. “I thought I was
opening a portal to another dimension. But I see now that I was lied to. I
understood it in the space between entering the portal and your joining me
here. People say that hindsight is always clearer. Here, hindsight and
foresight are the whole fabric of reality. It’s pretty much impossible to be
deceived here.”
He sensed that she was right, and began to understand.
“We’ve both been to the World Between the Worlds,” he said,
squeezing her hand and looking aside at her. “This is like that, isn’t it? It’s
the Time Between the Times.”
She nodded. The wound on her forehead was healed now, James
saw, or perhaps had never yet happened. She looked both younger and
older than he knew her. Probably, he appeared the same to her.
The lake faded away. In its place was a vast open space. There
were neat benches arranged at intervals, and the suggestion of platforms, a

sense of patient waiting, even though the space stood entirely empty. It
was, James realized, a train station.
“King’s Cross,” Petra smiled, and stepped away from him. She was
dressed differently again, but not in any way that James had ever seen her
before. She wore a simple dress, form-fitting on top, loose and flowing at
the bottom, the same powder blue as her former hooded jumper, but made
of some soft, dully shimmering fabric, at once dense and light as it swished
about her legs. Ivory pearls hung in a single strand around her neck. To
James’ surprise, she had a diamond ring on her left hand. It was not huge
or ostentatious, but neither was it cheap. It was inscribed on the inside with
a phrase: Amis et amoureux pour toujours. James knew this as if he himself
had caused the inscription—and the ring itself—to be there.
Petra had learned French at Alma Aleron, after all, and continued to
love the language, even if she was not precisely fluent at it…
James looked down at himself. He was dressed differently as well
—a white button-down shirt and a dark blazer, navy blue, Bigfoot house
colour, yet somehow matching Petra’s dress, tone for tone. He was a little
taller, a little older, as was she.
He moved to her with confidence, took her into his arms, and she
came to him easily, laid her head on his shoulder. They stood that way for
some time, resting together, holding each other as if it was the most natural
thing in the world, saying nothing.
Finally, Petra drew a long sigh against him, stirred, and shuddered
as she exhaled.
“We can’t stay here forever,” she said regretfully.
“I know,” James replied quietly, not yet letting her go. That moment
would come soon enough.
She raised her head and looked up at him, reading his eyes. “What
is this, do you think?”
He shrugged a little. “A glimpse of what might have been…”
She nodded and looked around, then rested her cheek against his
chest. He touched the top of her head with his chin, breathed in the scent of
her hair. Muffled faintly, she said, “There’s not much sadder in the world
than ‘what might have been’.”
It was James’ turn to sigh then.
The strangely empty world of King’s Cross Station was darker now.
It had the effect of theatre lights dimming, quieting the crowd, subtly

hinting that the final act was about to begin.
Still James did not let Petra go. She lowered her arms, found his
hands, and laced her fingers into his. When she took a small step back and
looked up at him, he wondered if they would kiss again. It was purely a
wistful thought, however. They had already had their first and last kiss, the
one to stand for all. He knew this. She, he could tell, was thinking the
same thing. Her eyes dipped.
She let go of his hands and moved back another step.
The Station darkened from twilight to grey dusk, then dipped into
patient midnight, drifting away all around them.
“It’s happening,” Petra said, still nearby but fading into shadow.
James nodded. There was a sound, dull and boundless, deep and
low. It grew, rose up around them, bringing with it a sense of cold
anticipation, of mist, and wind.
With quiet conviction, Petra said, “You won’t like how this ends.”
James shook his head in the lowering dark. “Nobody knows the end
yet.”
“Perhaps not. But promise me one thing.”
“I will if I can,” he said, straining to see her one last time in this
place that only they would remember. She was there, but just barely,
merely a dark Petra-shape against a darker infinity.
“Accept the ending, James. Even if the play is a tragedy.”
Neither spoke again. Time was reasserting itself. They were
coming out of the other side of the Time Between the Times. Voices
blended with the rising drone now, indistinct, some shouting busily, others
speaking with low, animated worry. They echoed dully, strangely familiar,
like people heard from the other side of a wall. He strained his ears, tensed
his body, as the gears of time caught up to him again, meshed minute to
minute, and began to carry them forward again.
Petra was no longer in front of him, although he still sensed her
nearby, herself realigning with wherever and whenever they were coming to
rest.
He sensed that he might forget the future they had just come from,
might slip seamlessly back into whatever former version of himself that he
was returning to. For he instinctively understood that this was not like
using a Time Turner—this was not his future self doubling back to revisit a
previous memory, while still essentially tethered to the future. This kind of

time travel unwound along his own lifeline, de-aging him, returning him to
the very person that he had been then, younger, and ultimately oblivious to
whatever future he had just come from. He would only remember that
future if he forced himself to concentrate on it, to cling to it like a dream
upon waking.
There was motion around him, as if the whole world was rolling,
rocking, creaking faintly, banging with footsteps and distant, urgent voices.
The drone of noise finally resolved itself, and James recognized it.
He knew where he was.
He knew when he was.
There was a bliss of relief, even in the midst of the worrying motion,
the creaking and rocking, the ominous groan of approaching thunder and
howling wind.
Because none of it had happened yet. Somewhere, far away, the
Vault of Destinies was still intact. The Loom was still spinning its
mysterious, unbroken tale of earthly destiny. The Vow of Secrecy was yet
intact, absolutely inviolate.
And amazingly, wonderfully nearby—James sensed this almost as if
he could hear and feel her very beating heart—was his cousin Lucy.
She was still alive.

This won’t be any magical storm, Barstow, the first mate of the
Gwyndemere, had said to James. Not like what nearly overtook the fabled
Treus and his crew…
How wrong he had been about that.
As James clambered up the stairs to the swaying, rocking mid-ship
deck, he recognized the storm that bore down on the ship, chilling the wind,
whistling through the rigging and sails, growling with deliberate intent. It
was Judith’s cursed tempest, unrelenting, still seeking payment in death. It
had pursued James first to Hogwarts, and then to the cemetery, and now,

incredibly, it had followed him back through the years, into his own past, to
the ocean voyage of the Gwyndemere, during James’ third school year.
He remembered the smell of it, the sudden roaring violence of it,
only unlike the first time he had encountered it, now he understood it. It
had always been Judith’s cursed storm, seeking payment in blood. It had
been cheated once, but only for a time. The clock had turned back. James
had a sinking certainty that, this time, there would be no escaping payment.
The sky moved overhead with sickening speed, as dark and heavy as
a tombstone. The ocean all around was a mountainscape of leaden waves,
carrying the ship over looming peaks and down into guttural valleys.
Ensconced in the elevated pilot’s chair atop the bow, Barstow
himself clapped his hat tight to his head with one hand, hung on to the
guiding pole with the other. James marveled at it all, remembering every
detail in a giddy rush—the sea monster, Henrietta, that powered the ship,
corkscrewing the waves with her lithe, scaly body; his parents and relatives
in the captain’s quarters beneath the stern, waiting out the storm while
Merlin observed keenly, knowing that something portentous was afoot; and
Petra standing on the deck above them, her dress and hair whipping in the
gale winds, her eyes calm but eerily haunted, tormented by dreams of her
stepsister, Izzy, drowning to death, murdered for a bargain of lost love and
hopelessness.
The Petra of that time did not understand that she was, in fact,
infected by the dreams of her dimensional twin, Morgan, soon to be
unleashed onto a world that was not her own.
But this version of Petra did understand.
James turned and tried to run up the mid-ship steps to the stern. The
rocking ship pitched him, made him stumble. He flailed for the bannister
and groped his way to the top.
Petra was there, just as before, her back to him, her hands resting
calmly on the railing that arced around the stern. He hair whipped and
flicked in loose ribbons. Her drab dress fluttered about her legs like a flag.
“Petra,” James called, raising his voice over the storm.
She turned to look back at him, and he stopped in place, his heart
thudding up into his throat. She was so much younger than he
remembered. And yet her blank face, her haunted eyes, made her seem
much older than even the Petra in the Time Between the Times. She looked
at him only briefly, a mere sidelong glance over her shoulder, and then,

without a word, turned back to the raging storm and the mountainous
waves. The ship rocked in slow, precipitous rhythm, like an enormous
pendulum dividing time into dwindling moments.
James braved the canting deck and joined her at the stern, grabbing
onto the railing himself. It was cold and wet. In mere moments, if things
weren’t changed, Petra would be thrown over it, swept by the falling mast
and its swinging booms.
“We should go below decks,” he said, raising his voice over the
wind and looking aside at her. She was the same height as him in this
timeframe. Her hair flitted and swirled around her face, hiding her eyes.
Just like last time, she made no sign of consent or agreement. But she did
place her hand on his, covering it. Whether giving or taking comfort, there
was no way to tell.
“Petra…” he called again, trying to get her to look at him.
“She’s out there,” Petra replied, not taking her gaze from the
marching waves. Each was of nearly alpine height, dwarfing the ship,
topped with white crests that tattered in the gale winds.
James looked out and up at the constantly shifting ocean
topography. He nodded. “She always was, wasn’t she? Water is her
medium, after all. She was the waves and the rain. She followed us the
whole way, biding her time, watching, waiting for her moment. We can’t
give it to her. We need to go below, Petra. Right now.”
“Lucy is still alive here,” Petra nodded to herself, ignoring him. “If
we do it right, she won’t have to die again. None of it will have to happen.”
A shiver coursed down James’ back, chilling him. He reached to
touch her elbow. “Odin-Vann let slip with his plan,” he said. The wind
batted his words, tried to steal them away. “He said that the only way to
change the past was to find something that almost happened differently, and
to make sure that it does. I think… they mean to see you fall from the back
of the ship, to die, like you almost did the first time. Then, Odin-Vann will
take over as Judith’s host in this world.”
Petra nodded again, slowly, her eyes still hauntingly clear as she
looked out over the tempest, measuring it. “She will be weaker with him as
her host than she was when Izzy and I were her sister fates. She knows
this. She is a creature from outside of time. Her future, dying self has
informed her past, vibrant self. Donofrio won’t multiply her power as we
did. But neither will he oppose her. Where Izzy and I defied and broke her,

he will submit and bow to her. That’s all that matters to Judith now.”
“Petra,” James said, using her name as a talisman, trying to rouse
her to action. “Don’t you understand? We can’t let them win. They will
stop me from saving you somehow.”
Petra shook her head. “I don’t think they will. I don’t think they
will have to.” Finally, she turned to him. Her eyes were eerily dead. “You
were so wonderful, James. So sweet and gallant. You fused your love to
my power, connected us. We’re still connected even now. I can feel it. The
thread between us has been there ever since. You saved me that time.”
“That time…?” James asked, although he had a sinking feeling that
he knew exactly what she meant.
“She will be less powerful with Donofrio as her host,” Petra nodded,
her eyes unfocussing, drifting back out over the waves. “Merlin will be
able to defeat her. Or your father. Or even you, perhaps. None of it will
need to happen as it did. The broken Loom. Lucy’s death. The Night of
the Unveiling. The Morrigan web…”
James was shaking his head firmly, growing deeply alarmed. “But
Odin-Vann didn’t even follow you back in time!” he insisted, reaching to
take Petra’s hand, to shake her out of her fatalistic fugue. “Nor did Judith!
You and I were the only ones that went through the portal!”
She blinked aside at him, as if surprised that he didn’t yet get it. “I
was the only one that needed to come back, James. Don’t you see? Judith’s
origins are outside of time. In some vague way, she is always in both the
past and the present. It’s her unfair advantage. And Donofrio already exists
here. She has surely already found him in this timeline, prepared him,
poisoned his already broken mind with delusions of power and revenge.
The version of him that you knew will never be. A new Donofrio OdinVann will spawn from this changed moment.”
She looked at James once more, assuring that he saw the conviction
in her eyes, albeit tainted with regret. “They only needed me to come back
in time, James, because I am the one who will make the change. I should
have gone over to my death the first time we went through this cursed
storm. You saved me. But you should have let me go. You have to let me
go. I can’t let you interfere this time.”
“That’s crazy!” James exclaimed, nearly shouting in the face of the
blaring, rainy wind. “You can’t give them what they want! You can’t just
give up!”

“I’m not giving up,” Petra said, her voice going firm, her eyes
hardening. “This is the cruelest thing of all for me, don’t you see? I don’t
want to die. I don’t want to leave Izzy! It’s even worse than when I
thought I was just returning to Morgan’s dimension! But this is what
should have happened. Just look at the terrible things that occurred as a
result! This time, without me to amplify her power, Judith will be
defeated! Merlin will destroy her, assisted by you and all the others who
will join him. You know the truth of all this, James. You must tell them.
You must make them believe, and act! This is your duty.”
“No!” James cried firmly, taking Petra by the shoulders, turning her
to him. “Come down below decks with me! It can’t be like this!”
“You’ve always wondered,” Petra mused thoughtfully, studying his
face, “when you invoked the same Deep Magic that your grandmother did
to save your father, how it was that you didn’t have to die, like she did. The
love covenant is a force of sacrifice, after all. But now we know the
answer, don’t we? The bargain wasn’t over. The Deep Magic didn’t
require your death because it knew we would be back here again. The
bargain was only a reprieve. And now, the circle will complete itself.”
She raised her hands and took his, removing them from her
shoulders. She turned away from him then, looked back out over the raging
tempest. He reached for her again, and found that he couldn’t touch her.
She held him back with her mind, erecting a subtle force around herself.
“It’s all a lie, Petra!” he said desperately. She didn’t look back.
Lightning flashed brilliantly over the waves, stabbing down, seeking its
mark. Thunder filled the world.
James tried to focus on Petra through the ribbon that connected
them. He sensed the power between them, could virtually see the silvery
thread pulse in the air between their hands. But she was shutting him out.
She was committed.
“Every bargain they’ve ever made with you was based on paying an
impossible, unfair price, Petra!” he shouted, straining to be heard over the
thunder and wind. “The Gatekeeper tried to make you kill Lily. The
Bloodline of Voldemort wanted you to kill Izzy. Odin-Vann said you had to
kill me. It’s always the same deal, the same terrible cost. And what do you
get for it? Nothing but a tainted soul and teasing shadows! The cost
outweighs the benefits! It’s just leprechaun gold, gone by morning! The
death bargain is always a lie! And this time it’s the biggest lie of all! Judith

has finally convinced you that the person you have to kill… is yourself!”
She refused to look at him. Her back was straight, her arms locked
at the elbow, spread to grip the railing, squeezing it, waiting for the
inevitable. Her hair flailed in the wind like a black corona. Lightning was
nearly constant now, accompanied by a seamless cannonade of thunder.
Seeing the inevitable now, James firmed his voice, raised his chin,
and stated, “Judith will kill Izzy first.”
Petra’s shoulders tensed as if he had struck her.
He went on, bitterly. “When you’re dead, the connection will be
broken. Judith won’t need Izzy anymore, and you won’t be there to protect
her. Maybe you’re right, and in the end Merlin will defeat Judith. But
she’ll kill whoever she can before that happens. Izzy will be the first,
because she knows the truth. I’ll be next on her list. I’ll fight, but who am I
compared to her? She’ll kill me with barely a second thought. All because
you gave up.”
“Don’t!” Petra shouted, her voice carrying over her shoulder, shrill
on the wind. “James, don’t! I have to do this! Don’t make it any harder!”
“Do you remember how Lucy died?” James asked, undeterred,
taking a step closer, still speaking to her tensed back. “She died protecting
Izzy. She’ll do the same thing again this time. You know she will. When
Judith comes for Izzy, Lucy will get in her way, try to stop her. She’ll fail,
and Judith will kill her again. History finds a way to keep happening. You
may change the bigger story, if we’re very lucky. But the little things will
still find a way to happen just like they did last time!”
“STOP!” Petra shouted, and whirled to face him, her eyes more
alive and sharp than he had seen them during the entire exchange.
Lightning illuminated the world, spearing down and arcing onto the
Gwyndemere’s stern, where it struck the aft mast, immediately behind
James. The base of the mast exploded into splinters. James felt them pelt
against his back, stick in his damp shirt. The shudder of the force shook the
deck. A juddering, groaning creak filled the air and ropes twanged, popped,
tore loose as the mast began to topple. James didn’t turn to watch, even as
he felt the weight collect over him, throwing the stern into deeper darkness
beneath its shadow.
Petra’s eyes flashed upward. “James!” she shouted, alarmed, and
acted apparently without even thinking. She rammed both of her arms into
the air, palms flat, and a palpable wave of power shot up from them,

arresting the motion of the collapsing mast. The deck split beneath Petra’s
feet, crushing inward as she supported the weight of the mast, cushioning it
with pure invisible force.
James could feel the power throttling between himself and Petra,
warming his hand, making his knees tremble as if he had just run a mile.
Gently, concentrating furiously, Petra redirected the falling mast,
angled it alongside the stern, and then let it drop again, this time safely off
the side. The ship shuddered as the broken weight crashed down, rolled
over the railing, plunged its tip into the waves, where it ripped, snapped,
and drug away into the surging current.
James turned back to Petra, eyes wide with surprise, his mind
reeling at this sudden, unexpected change of events.
“You ducked last time,” Petra explained weakly, slumping back
against the railing, dipping and shaking her head. Her shoulders hitched as
if she was beginning to sob. “You ducked out of the way, leaving the mast
to hit me alone.”
James ran to her, grabbed her shoulder, fearing that she might still
tilt back over the side, fall to the heaving waves below.
She wasn’t sobbing. She was laughing. It was a weak, helpless
sound, but genuine. “You insufferable, noble, stubborn, gallant git,” she
said, and leaned against him, still shaking with helpless amusement. “You
were so intent on saving me that you didn’t even move to save yourself.”
James smiled, nervously relishing the sound of Petra’s fragile
laughter. “So you saved me instead. Does that mean… we’re even?”
Petra raised her head to answer, looking James in the eyes even as
rain began to fall in earnest.
A clatter sounded from nearby. James remembered. When the mast
had fallen last time, some of the deck hands had run up from below to
investigate. He didn’t remember them coming this quickly, though.
“It’s not over,” Petra said, tensing and growing serious again. “She
won’t give up this easily.”
The door on the side of the galley wrenched open, accompanied by
the sound of panicked, stumbling footsteps. It wasn’t a deck hand that
emerged. Instead, a lanky young man half-ran, half-fell out of the galley
entrance, catching himself on a nearby railing. He pushed rapidly upright,
brandishing a wand in one hand, pushing his hair out of his face with the
other, looking around frantically.

It was Donofrio Odin-Vann, only not as James knew him. This
version of the future professor appeared barely out of his teens, smaller and
more gangly, the thick sheaf of his hair longer, greasy and lank on his
forehead.
“He stowed away,” James said in dark wonder, his voice nearly lost
in the stormy wind. “He was on the ship the whole time!”
“He wasn’t, actually,” Petra said, her brow lowering at the
newcomer. “At least, not the first time through. This is a changed event.”
“Petra!” Odin-Vann stammered, clearly surprised to find her there.
His voice was higher than James remembered, cracked from disuse during
his days of hiding. He shot his gaze around at the wet deck littered with
splinters, the missing aft mast. “You’re… still here! Only, she said…”
“Who said, Don?” Petra asked coyly, cocking her head, her eyes
narrowing.
He tried to straighten his matted robes, to recover and mask his
surprise. “Your, um, friend. You know. The Lady. She said… she said
that you and she were very close. But she said that you would want it this
way. I hope you haven’t had any sort of…” he gulped, and glanced around,
“of falling out?”
Petra shook her head slowly. She seemed caught between rising
anger and sad pity. Resignedly, she asked, “What did she tell you, Don?”
He gulped again and looked around, his eyes bulging at the raging
mountains of water, the seething magical storm. “She said… she said that
you called her into the world, but that I could take the burden from you,” he
called reedily over the rushing wind. “I would host her, and get her power
in return. All the power I ever wanted, because she’s some sort of… of
goddess. I would be her new sponsor in the earth. And then she would
grant me the strength to… to…”
He forced his eyes back to Petra, blinking rapidly, apparently
reluctant to go on.
Petra said, “The power to have revenge on all those who mocked
you and bullied you. More, the power to never be mocked or bullied ever
again.”
“You don’t hate me, do you, Petra?” the young man said earnestly.
“You always understood me. We always supported each other…”
She shook her head again, with sadness and betrayal. “I never really
knew you at all. Did I?”

Odin-Vann gave a grimace. “Does anyone ever really know anyone
else?”
James saw, with frustrating dismay, that this young man was not yet
the manipulative mastermind that he would grow to become. And yet he
was clearly toxic with power delusions and fantasies of revenge, dangerous
more for his desperation than his power or intellect. James only hoped that
Petra understood the same.
“You made yourself a fool, Don,” Petra sighed, confirming this.
“The Lady of the Lake won’t help you. She will only use you. That’s what
she does. She uses, and manipulates, and lies. And then, when she is done,
she kills.”
Young Odin-Vann nodded a little, and a tentative smile curled his
lips. “She said that’s what some people would say. But she also said that
you would be happy to be relieved of the burden of being her host. I don’t
know how you summoned her into the world, but I do know that you don’t
want that responsibility anymore. We’re going to help you let go of it.”
Here, young Odin-Vann’s eyes switched to James, squinted with an
insincere smile. “And this is young Mr. Potter, then, is it? The Lady told
me about you as well.”
James felt anger well up in him. He drew his wand without even
thinking. “I beat you once,” he said with iron conviction. “And I can do it
again.”
“You beat me, you say?” Odin-Vann replied quickly, as if
moderately impressed. “I don’t recall that. But I’ve been beaten by so very
many. Beaten, and laughed at. But soon, the laughing will stop. Even
yours, Mr. James Potter. I hope you enjoyed your one victory. I think it
will be your last.”
The confidence in his voice was puzzling. A split second too late
did James realize what was happening. The stowaway young man was
distracting him and Petra, keeping them talking, goading and occupying
them for his own nefarious reason.
James turned back to the raging ocean behind them.
A tentacle of icy water blasted him backwards, knocked him to the
deck so violently that he lost all sense of direction, knew only vicious
motion, and the sound sudden screaming laughter, and a jolt of wracking
pain as he struck some hard surface, smashed through it, and crashed into
darkness.

“You didn’t play your role, dear sister!” Judith’s voice screamed,
bright with good humour, horribly vibrant. “But no matter. I remember
how the story is supposed to go!”
James tried to find his footing. He slipped and tripped over broken
pieces of something, a table and chairs, smashed by his passage through the
galley wall. Cold wind and mists of ice battered through the dark, pushing
him back down, forcing him to strain against the force.
Petra didn’t respond to Judith’s taunt. Instead, shudders of violence
shook the ship, battered it as it rocked atop the heaving waves. James
crawled forward, cutting his hands on broken glass, not feeling it. The
broken galley wall loomed before him, revealing a barrage of magic and
flailing, watery motion. Odin-Vann was there, but cringing in terror,
backing away, his hands raised.
James realized, on some dim, faraway level, that it was not only the
blasting force of Petra’s and Judith’s confrontation that was pushing him
back. His arms and legs trembled with weakness. His vision pulsed with
waves of grey. He could feel the drain as Petra drew from him, drawing
strength like water from a deep well. The cord between them thrummed
like a pulse.
He was her battery. Somehow, he stored and held her banked
power.
He forced himself to his knees and clambered through the shattered
wall. The storm raged harder than ever, forming a torrential backdrop to the
battle.
Judith was in her prime again, James saw. Beautiful and terrible,
her red hair loose and flying in waves, her eyes blazing with strength, her
teeth bared in a fierce grin. She lunged at Petra, launching a cloud of icy
arrows. Petra hunkered and dug in, extending both arms and erecting a
shimmering shield, obliterating Judith’s attack.
Footsteps clanked and pounded up the mid-ship stairs. Two deck
hands appeared on the port side; Merlin and James’ father on the starboard.
Odin-Vann glanced back at the newcomers, his eyes wild and
terrified. His wand was in his fist, but he did not fire. Instead, he dropped
to a crouch and covered his head with his skinny arms, whimpering.
“Halt!” Merlin shouted, his voice booming through the storm.
Judith flung a hand at him, turning it to a bludgeon of ice. It struck
the headmaster, bowling him backwards into Harry, knocking both back

down the stairs.
“The harder you resist me, sister,” Judith cried, renewing her attack
on Petra, “The more of your friends will die. Poor Merlinus is no match for
me here on the ocean. His strength is the green of the wild. I am the blue
of the depths! I will crush him like a dung beetle!”
“No!” Petra shouted, lowering her voice to a furious command. She
planted her feet, knees bent, and shot out both of her fists, left and right. As
she did, a shockwave of force blasted away from her in all directions.
James’ mind went grey. He began to crumple to the deck,
completely sapped of strength.
But the deck suddenly bucked beneath him, threw him aside, and
wrenched hard toward the bow. A massive, splintering crunch rocked the
ship as it seemed to ram to a halt in the water. James rolled and slid on the
varnished planks, fetching up hard against the broken galley wall again, his
head spinning.
“Neptune’s Trident!” a voice—one of the deck hands—called out,
breathless with shock.
Dizzily, James scrabbled to his hands and knees, pushed up against
the leaning galley bulkhead, and blundered back toward the starboard
railing.
He was utterly unprepared for the sight that met him.
The waves beyond looked like a Muggle photograph, suddenly and
utterly frozen in place, shocked white as if by a flash of lightning. Their
peaks glinted like glass daggers, their troughs sloped with deep bottle-blue,
perfectly still, like a split-second in time.
With a shock of surprise and awe, James saw that the Gwyndemere
lay tilted hard to port, locked in an expanding island of flash-frozen ocean.
Even as he watched, further ocean peaks crunched to stillness, overcome by
Petra’s expanding, icy spell.
Petra’s eyes flared like twin suns.
“You shall not touch anyone on this ship again,” she declared in a
voice of cold thunder. Punctuating this command, she struck out with both
hands.
Her attack was a wave of force that visibly bent space around it.
The bolt connected with Judith in an instant, blasting her backwards,
exploding her through the deck and railing behind.
“Petra!” James’ father called, clambering up the tilting stairs again,

Merlin struggling upright behind. But Petra was already leaping to follow
her nemesis over the lowered port side, landing on a slope of ice.
“Stay on the ship!” she called back. “I will keep her away and
busy! When you can navigate the ship again, fly! Don’t look back!”
The storm still raged, now howling and whistling over the frozen
mountains of ice, tattering their crests into sparkling streams of snow. Rain
blatted down, slicking the icy canyons, freezing into icicles from the peaks.
Judith laughed shrilly from the echoing chasms.
“Come and find me, Sister!”
The ice rumbled. Cracks appeared around the Gwyndemere,
unsettling it. Black water bubbled and spurt up around it. Petra’s spell was
already weakening.
James drew his wand, helplessly watching as Petra reached the
bottom of the frozen wave and broke into a run, seeking the laughing
monster beyond. He considered joining her, but knew it was no use. He
could no sooner assist her than he could lift the ship with his own two
hands.
And then someone pushed him from behind, two hands planted in
the middle of his back, hard enough to propel him straight forward over the
railing.
“James!” his father shouted in alarm, but the sound was already
diminishing, muffled with distance as he flipped over in air, landed hard on
his back and tumble-slid down the rocklike slope of a frozen swell. Spells
lit the driving rain in flashing hues. Voices shouted.
James gasped to recover his breath. His entire body ached and
shivered, both with cold and wet and weakness. He lay in the shadow of
the ice-locked hull of the Gwyndemere, staring aside at the half-buried
rudder, now encased in a thick sheath of ice.
Another figure slipped and clambered down the icy wave, nearly
falling atop him.
“She will want you for this,” the figure gasped through gritted
teeth. It was young Odin-Vann. He reached, clambered over James, and
wrenched the wand from his hand.
“Come!” he commanded, grabbing James by the fabric of his shirt
and dragging him roughly to his feet.
Spells spat down from the ship, competing with the flash of angry
lightning.

“Stop!” a voice called from above, barely heard over the ripping
wind and teeming rain. “You’ll hit my son! We must go after them!”
James clambered along after Odin-Vann, off balance, tugged in the
young man’s merciless grip. They clambered through a rippled gully of ice,
sheened darkest blue with depth. Before them, James sensed Judith and
Petra still battling, just around the nearest mountainous peak. He felt the
drain of power as Petra struggled franticly to match Judith’s prime force. It
wasn’t working. He sensed her desperation, the faltering quaver of her
strength.
Petra’s element was the city, after all. She could not match Judith
here any more than Merlin could.
Behind James and Odin-Vann, the canyon of ice wrenched, heaved,
and gave a huge, splintering crack. Water boiled up, surged into the troughs
of the frozen waves. James turned to look back, still stumbling in OdinVann’s wiry grip.
The Gwyndemere was breaking free into a field of shattered ice,
even as figures on the deck attempted to climb down, to chase James and
Odin-Vann. As he watched, the ship sloshed to starboard, cracking away
from its icy bed, cutting off any pursuit.
Petra couldn’t maintain the ice spell. She had used the last reserve
of her strength to force Judith away from the ship, to save those aboard.
That, at least, seemed to have worked, if only for the time being.
The ice rumbled beneath James’ stumbling feet. Odin-Vann nearly
fell, but maintained his fistful of James’ shirt, jerking him forward, into the
howl of a dark ice valley.
Petra was there, facing Judith across the gully. Their magic lit the
shimmering walls, reflected deep in the ice like prisms. Petra was backing
away clumsily, shielding herself but no longer launching any attacks of her
own.
Judith was like a dynamo. She flung jets of blinding light first from
one hand, then the other, striding forward, still grinning, propelling Petra
ever back, back, until there was nowhere left to go.
James cried out to her, but Odin-Vann yanked him forward, threw
him down onto the wet ice, and kicked him in the side.
“How does it feel?” the young man seethed. “Being the weak one?
Being the one about to be beaten!?”
“Stop!” Petra screamed, turning from Judith to Odin-Vann. The

moment her attention failed, however, Judith lashed out with her icetentacle arms. She slammed Petra backwards violently, bashing her against
the slope of a massive, frozen wave. The water wraith raised her club-like
arms and beat Petra again, and again, until she no longer attempted to rise.
Petra fell back, her hair plastered to her forehead, dangling in wet ribbons.
Her pale face and arms were the only things visible in the gloom.
“Use the boy’s wand,” Judith said, speaking to Odin-Vann but not
taking her eyes from the prone form of Petra. “Let it be his last thought
before the water swallows them both.”
“Nuh—!” James began, but Odin-Vann kicked him again, hard
enough to drive the breath from his lungs. The young man was like a
person possessed, maddened and blinded with poison avarice. He strode
forward, raising James’ wand in his hand, sighting down it.
James tried to get up, to lunge forward and throw himself upon the
crazed man. But his arms shivered with frailty. He could scarcely push
himself up onto his elbows, barely lift his head to watch. He was feeling
Petra’s deathly exhaustion, sharing it with her. And yet, even now, the cord
between them thrummed, invisible but potent, making them one.
“It may be difficult for you,” Judith said, her own voice rasping with
greed. She raised her chin and took a step back. “But Petra has nothing left
to live for anyway. Regardless of what she says, she desires this. She
wishes to die here, to sink to the depths, to be claimed by defeat. It’s what
fate demands. Do it. Save her from herself.”
Rain poured into the frozen ocean wasteland. The storm raged, still
strengthening. Thunder shook the ice beneath James. Water bubbled up
through spreading cracks.
Odin-Vann’s fist trembled as he stretched James’ wand out toward
Petra, sighted carefully down it. But even from his position on the ice,
watching helpless from ten paces away, James saw that it wasn’t regret that
made the young man’s arm quiver. It was anticipation. He was finally
living the fantasy that he had harbored for so many years, to overpower and
destroy those who opposed him. Petra had been his confidante, his one
solace. But in the end she was merely an obstacle to true power. He would
kill her and marvel at the feeling of it—of taking the life of a young woman
that he had once called a friend—simply as payment to become Judith’s
new host, for the immense power that his petty, broken mind had craved for
so long.

Petra began to get up. It was a struggle. James could feel it,
broadcast to him through the invisible cord.
“Don,” she said, and raised a hand to him, as if asking for his help.
“Avada Kedavra,” he barked, hoarsely, seeming almost to relish
each syllable.
James’ wand burst green. The bolt spat, sharp as a needle, flashed
the canyons of ice and curtains of rain into unearthly emerald daylight.
The spell struck Petra just below her throat. It blasted her back
down again, slamming her against the ice hard enough to make her head
jolt, her damp hair to flail and fall over her open, knowing eyes. The hand
she had raised recoiled across her chest, and then flopped down to her side,
where it lay suddenly still, horribly still.
She was dead.
James could feel it. The cord was still there between them,
connecting them hand to hand, soul to soul, but in that instant her length
had gone completely, finally dark.
James screamed. The sound was bestial, utterly bereft, empty of
words. He drained his lungs completely and then seemed unable to draw
another breath. His chest was locked tight, clenched with shock, and loss,
and horror. He no longer noticed Odin-Vann as he took James’ wand in
both hands, broke it, and tossed it away. He barely even noticed as Judith
approached Petra’s dead body, reached down, and plucked the moonstone
brooch from her jumper, smiling at it in her hand before pinning it to her
own robe, claiming it as a trophy of smug triumph.
How is this possible, James’ mind raged. Petra had a Horcrux!
Only she didn’t, of course. Not in this timeline. She had travelled
back to her previous self, but the dark magic of the Horcrux had not
accompanied her. Here, she hadn’t yet created it.
And now she never would.
Together, the two murderers strode away into the darkness, the
goddess of chaos with her new human host, leaving Petra’s last sorceress
spell to crack and heave apart behind them, melting away, soon to drop her
corpse to the depths, claimed by the very waves that she and James had
once cheated.
And James would soon follow. Just one more casualty at sea, lost
forever to the deep.
But he no longer felt weak. With Petra no longer summoning from

the power that he had collected for her, his own strength returned.
In the wake of everything, this felt like a mockery. A dark insult.
He sat up in the lowering gloom, even as the ice cracked all around
and water sloshed past him. He raised his hand, looked at it. The ribbon
was visible as a moon-colored glow, no longer tainted with any trace of
crimson. The thread wafted back toward Petra’s body.
Her power, her very essence, was still in him, banked away, albeit
useless.
But… how was that possible?
Somehow, through some enchantment that he barely understood, he
had served as a battery for her. He had used her stored power himself on
occasion. And she had drawn it from him, right up until the very end, via
the cord that bound them.
After all, Petra’s power was the city. There were no cities here, in
the middle of the ocean. Here, she had been at her weakest.
But James had been to many, many cities since he and Petra had
become bound together. He had been to New York and New Amsterdam.
London and Philadelphia. He had spent weeks with Charlie in Brasov, and
nearly a month’s holiday in Cairo with his parents. As he thought back,
even now, he could count them, city after city. Dozens of them. Their
power had stored up inside him, growing greater by the hour, nearly
limitless, all banked away…
And all ultimately unused.
Because there was only so much power that Petra could siphon off
through the invisible thread between them. He had hoarded it, unwittingly,
unable to plumb its depths himself, but neither releasing it to Petra.
Because, simply put, he had refused to let her go.
Let me go, James, she had asked him, begged him, four years earlier.
But he couldn’t. He’d held onto her instead, divided her power
between them, because he couldn’t bear to give her up.
He pushed to his feet, steadied himself on the shifting icy surface.
The storm raged all around, battered him with blasts of wind and pelting
rain, dragged hungrily at him. He didn’t feel any of it.
He moved to Petra’s body, sat down next to her, and took her hand.
It was cold. He wanted to cry over her, to pay with tears for the loss, but
somehow he couldn’t. His grief felt beyond even tears.
The frozen ocean cracked and broke around him. He felt the

remaining floe lower and heave over the waves.
“I’m sorry, Petra,” he said, holding onto her cold hand. “It’s
probably too late now. But I’m finally doing it. I’m doing what you asked.
I’m letting you go.”
He closed his eyes and focused his inward senses on the clasp of
their hands. He located the point where his palm stemmed power into hers,
binding them together, connecting them ever since that fateful moment on
the back of the Gwyndemere.
Let me go James…
He did. He let her go.
The release of her power was a palpable sensation. It streamed out
of him first like a ribbon of soft wind, and then like a stream of water, and
then increasing to something like a rushing river.
It began to hurt, to strain like muscles flexed past their limit. But
there was also a dizzyingly sense of release, like putting down a massive
burden that one had forgotten they were even carrying. And still the power
flowed out of him, faster and harder, growing to titanic force, like every
waterfall in the world forced through a James-sized hose.
His body trembled. He shivered from head to toe, so hard that his
eyes seemed to vibrate in their sockets. He tried to breath, but his throat
was locked tight. His fingers curled into helpless fists. His right squeezed
Petra’s cold hand, his left dug fingernails into the flesh of his palm.
Days and weeks and months of stored energy roared out of him,
every moment that he had spent in the many metropolises, soaking in their
webs of light and noise, their hives of human interconnectedness. The
surge grew to a blur of colour, of honking horns, and roaring crowds, and
steaming vents, and rushing traffic…
And then, with a spasm like a breath gasped only a split second
before drowning, James recoiled backwards, limp and exhausted, his heart
broken with loss, but his mind and body blissful with relief.
And in the darkness, wet and slick with rain, Petra’s hand warmed.
He assumed it was only the heat of their clasped fingers, and the surge of
her released power.
But then he gasped.
As her fingers squeezed his.

26. THE SHACKLE OF THE BROOCH
James jerked his head to look down at her. Her eyes opened, but
they were changed. They were pure white, glimmering and flashing like
diamonds before a winter sun. She did not look at him, but her hand
continued to grip his, to squeeze avidly, as if trying to communicate through
touch alone.
A warm wind rose up around her, spinning into a soft cyclone,
drying her wet hair and clothes, lifting her up to her feet, and then raising
her into the air.
James let go of her hand as she arose, straightening, her features
firming into a taut expression of severe calm. She raised her hands, held
them out at her sides, palms open, fingers spread. She was summoning and
controlling the hot wind, using it to repel the viciousness of the storm.
Light accompanied her, pale as moonbeams, coalescing in waves around
her form and building like a halo.
With a subtle sweep of her hand, she extended the force to James.
He leaned, swayed as the air rushed around him, cocooned him in a tempest

of warmth, and lifted him away from the sinking ice.
Petra’s power was surging still, increasing, building like a whine in
the air, a thrum underfoot, a pulse that seemed to penetrate into the very
ocean depths below.
And yet James felt no siphoning of strength from his own inner
core. The cord no longer connected them. He had let go of Petra, given it
all to her, poured into her the entirety of all that he had stored for her.
And now she was using every last ounce of it.
He arose alongside her, bathed in her power. He found that he was
afraid to speak to her, worried that he might somehow break whatever
strange enchantment had brought her back. It was Petra, and yet, in some
indefinable way, even beyond the unearthly glitter of her eyes, she was
changed.
Together they scanned the dark, storm-swept ocean all around.
The spell of ice was shattering into choked shards now. Floating ice
fields rode the waves once again. Lightning stabbed down in staccato
strobes. In the middle distance, the Gwyndemere floundered before the
gale.
And approaching it, walking atop the water alongside her human
host, herself transformed into a giantess of ice and water, swollen with
purpose and drunken with triumph, the Lady of the Lake stalked, reaching
forward, ready to crush the ship and all aboard it like a broken toy.
Petra saw her, narrowed her flashing diamond eyes, and surged
forward through the air, supported on her cyclone of warmth, taking James
alongside her.
The ocean sped away beneath them. The peaks of the waves
reached for them, but never touched them, or even so much as cooled them
with mist at their passage.
Odin-Vann was like a child next to Judith’s bloated form, stumbling
uncertainly atop the waves, his robes and hair battered by wind and rain.
Ignoring him, Judith stalked forward, made of the ocean and drawing it up
into herself, feeding from its power to grow to behemoth proportions,
intending not only to kill, but to terrify first.
Petra did not slow to confront Judith. Instead, she raised her fists
and blasted through the hulking figure at shoulder level, plunging into her
back and bursting from her engorged sternum, emerging fully dry on the
other side even as the water demoness half-collapsed, cascading over Odin-

Vann, who fell into the waves, spluttering.
Judith roared and rebuilt her form, sucking dense green ocean back
into herself and bulging even larger and more terrible.
“How are you here?” she bellowed in rage and surprise.
She reached with tentacles like freight trains, groping for Petra and
James where they floated in their personal typhoon of light and warmth.
Petra’s voice boomed over the thunder. “Be still and resume the
form that granted you entry into this world!”
The tentacle arms fell away, breaking into rushing torrents of loose
water and crashing to the waves below. The behemoth herself shrank and
writhed, mounting an agony of resistance, but seemingly unable to disobey.
She screamed and twisted in on herself, constricting into a shape like a
hundred tentacles, bound into a thrashing, tightening knot. And then, the
tentacles obliterated into spray and Judith herself emerged from their centre,
soaked and streaming, her robes dense with icy water, her hair hanging in
sopping, coppery streamers around her face.
She dragged up into the air, captured in the iron grip of Petra’s
implacable power, thrashing and screaming, her face contorted into a rictus
of affronted hate, apparently robbed of words.
Petra lifted the Lady of the Lake before her, suspended her with a
barely raised right hand and a calm glare, until they were eye to hateful eye,
ten feet apart. Judith spat and hissed, twisting like a snake, snapping her
body in enraged convulsions.
“Come, Donofrio,” Petra said, and lowered her left hand. With a
slow flick of her wrist, he lofted up from the waves to join them, gasping
and cascading torrents of water. He arose alongside Judith, and James saw
that his eyes were utterly terrified. His throat constricted rhythmically, as if
he was trying to scream but couldn’t summon the breath.
James did not pity him. The horrible, deluded little man deserved
no remorse. And still James found himself turning aside to Petra.
“Don’t kill him, Petra,” he said, and found that his own voice
resonated like thunder over the storm and waves. “He may deserve to die.
But you don’t deserve to kill.”
Petra looked askance at him, blinked at him with her inscrutable
shining eyes. Judith and Odin-Vann twisted and writhed in the force of her
effortless power. And still James saw the intent on her face, even as she
seemed to reconsider, if only for a moment.

Judith screamed, roared, clawed with her hands. Her hair whipped
and flailed about her head, stuck to her face in clumps.
And James saw Petra’s face harden again. Slowly, she turned back
to the pair suspended before them.
Her gaze swept from Odin-Vann to Judith, then focused on Judith’s
wet robes. They were dark, as always. But something glimmered softly
beneath her left shoulder. It was the brooch. Its pearlescent moonstone
flickered with the lightning, shimmered in the reflected glow of Petra’s
swirling power.
With a flick of one finger, Petra caused the brooch to pluck from
Judith’s robes. The demoness shrieked and swiped at it, clumsily, unable to
reach. Behind the brooch, a ribbon of pale light streamed, connecting back
to its origin on Judith’s breast, a tentacle of intent.
Deftly, Petra maneuvered the brooch between them. It turned gently
in the air like a ballerina, its moonstone shining, its silver scrollwork
flashing with lightning.
But Petra did not take it back.
Instead, she returned her gaze to Odin-Vann. The brooch lofted
toward him at her direction, still trailing its streamer of strength.
His eyes bulged. He gawped with his mouth, but managed only
choked gasps. His Adam’s apple jerked up and down in the stubbly stalk of
his neck.
His robes stretched across his shoulders, and then tore open,
revealing his heaving, skinny chest. James watched, equally curious and
horrified, as Petra used her powers, her innate understanding of the human
body, to open his skin like that of an orange, to peel back the muscle, and
lay bare the white cage of living ribs beneath. Odin-Vann looked down at
himself and screamed. It was not a scream of pain, James understood, but
of abject terror. His own body was flaying open before him. His breath
came in hyperventilating gusts, each plainly visible as a spastic expand and
contract of his ribs, a shuddering bulge of the pulpy lungs beneath.
James glanced at Petra, afraid but speechless. Was she slowly
killing the awful little man? Torturing him as she did so? She seemed to be
studying Odin-Vann’s open chest, squinting with clinical intent. She
manipulated the fingers of her left hand.
With a crackle of cartilage and marrow, Odin-Vann’s ribs opened
like laced fingers, splaying wide, revealing the naked muscle of his heart. It

clenched like a fist, red and thumping with terror, hung between the lobes of
his gasping lungs.
Petra nodded to herself. Deftly, she manipulated the brooch directly
in front of Odin-Vann’s palpitating heart. It revolved softly, casting prisms
of light over the hollow of gore beyond.
And then, with an apparently reluctant flick, Petra plunged the
brooch directly into Odin-Vann’s heart, sinking it deep into the muscle,
burying it completely. In response, a wave of stunning heat and light
exploded from the point of entry, blasting out in a shockwave,
encompassing Judith and blowing past James and Petra.
Odin-Vann shrieked and jerked backwards in his cocoon of force,
and this time James sensed that it was indeed an exclamation of
monumental pain. But there was surprise in it as well, for Odin-Vann’s
heart did not stop beating. Despite being impaled with the brooch, the
organ continued to clench rhythmically between his lungs, pumping
desperate blood, so fast and hard that it appeared to convulse. Only now,
the silvery thread extended from his heart, spread through the air like a
ribbon of smoke, and stabbed into Judith’s breast, where the brooch had
been pinned only moments before.
With a cold flick, Petra closed Odin-Vann’s ribs again, and then
sealed the meager muscle and pale skin back into place, leaving not so
much as a scar.
“You chose your new host,” Petra said, turning to face Judith,
damning finality in her voice. “And thus I cannot kill you. Nor could I do
so even if I wished, for history will find its way to keep happening. All I
can do is nudge it in a new direction, hope for a new ripple of events that
will lead to your eventual and total defeat. You have chosen this man to be
your host instead of me. His lifeblood is your root to this world. Thus, he
shall also be your tether and prison. If you venture further than the sound
of his heartbeat,” here, Petra reached out, twined her fist around the pale
ribbon that connected them, and gave it a hard, merciless tug. Odin-Vann
wrenched and screamed, clutching a hand over his heart. Petra nodded with
satisfaction. “The thread will go taut, and he will die. Your key to this
realm is now your ball and chain. He will be your undoing, at the hands of
those who are now more powerful than you. Begone, petty creature of the
abyss. Your time here is soon ended.”
And with that, Petra swept her left hand back from the shoulder,

flinging Odin-Vann away like a comet. He vanished into stormy distance,
leaving only the echo of his shocked scream.
Judith spared only a split second to bare her teeth before rocketing
off in pursuit of him, following the thread that now bound them.
James turned to watch, but they were already vanished, lost in the
heaving pall of the storm.
“Where did you send him?” he asked, still searching the clouds.
“The first of the six lost cities of Atlantis,” Petra answered, sighing
with weariness. “There are air pockets there that are a thousand years old,
and nothing else alive for a hundred leagues in any direction. That will
keep them busy for a little while, at least.”
He turned back to her. They still floated high over the waves,
protected from the raging storm by the subtle cushion of her swirling
powers. “You didn’t kill him,” he said with some wonder. “He killed you.
But you let him live…”
“You asked me to,” she replied, and shrugged. “And it wouldn’t
have worked if I had. Odin-Vann really was right. History can’t be
changed by major alterations. We have to steer things only slightly
differently, and hope for the best.”
James shook his head in happy disbelief. He reached for her,
touched her hand through the swirling glow of power. “I can’t believe this
is happening. It feels too good to be true.”
“It is,” she said, and her diamond eyes clouded, her knees suddenly
buckled. James reached to catch her, to support her as she went
momentarily limp. The cocoon of warmth and light all around them
contracted. They dipped suddenly, dropping fifty feet in a second before
bobbing uncertainly up again, this time barely above the hungry,
mountainous waves.
“I think I used up most of what you gave me,” she gasped, clutching
onto him for support. “I’m fearful that it wasn’t life force. Only power.”
He held her up, supported her in his arms, concern darkening his
thoughts. “What do you mean?”
She shook her head. Her eyes had returned to their normal blue.
James couldn’t tell if this was an encouraging or worrying sign. She said,
“We’re on borrowed time. We need to get back to the ship.”
Firming her grip on his elbow, she concentrated, directing the
dwindling bubble of her force through the storm, aiming for the

Gwyndemere where it foundered, listing over the waves, still crusted with
ice.
“Someone comes!” a voice bellowed.
“Wands up!” another commanded.
“Wait!” a third voice cried. It was James’ father, thankfully. “That
is my son and his friend, Petra Morganstern! Make room! They approach
quickly!”
Petra lowered them to the ship’s stern, which heaved and rolled
beneath them, shifting dozens of feet every few seconds, making landing
especially difficult.
“James!” his father cried, reaching to catch him by the arm and
shoulder as he stumbled to the deck. Next to him, much to James’ surprise,
Persephone Remora collected Petra as she lowered, her protective bubble
blowing away into the storm, her legs giving out as the deck swelled
beneath her.
“What has become of the Lady?” a deep voice asked, stiff with
urgency. Merlin shouldered near, his beard streaming in the gale.
“Not defeated, Headmaster,” Petra answered, recovering slightly,
though still supported by Remora. “But her power is lessened. And she
can now be tracked, for she is hobbled to her human host, a young man
named Donofrio Odin-Vann. Find him, and she will be nearby.”
Remora nodded, although the look in her eyes betrayed her
confusion. “Who was she? An ocean sprite? A siren? I have heard of
such beings, though never encountered one of such malignant force.”
“She is neither,” Merlin replied gravely, though James thought he
detected a certain cautious eagerness in the headmaster’s stern gaze. He
had only just learned of Judith’s existence, and yet he had leapt immediately
to certain deductions about her origins, as well as a plan for how to confront
her, next time in his own element, and with much different results.
“We have to get below decks,” Harry called over the roaring storm,
dismissing these mysteries for the moment. “It appears that everyone is
once again present and accounted for. Let us keep it that way. Headmaster,
lead on…”
“No,” James said, tugging his father’s arm. “You don’t understand!
This is no regular storm. It’s one of her curses—the Lady that Petra and
Merlin are talking about! I don’t have time to explain it now, but it’s not
going to just blow over! She unleashed the storm on us to stop us! To kill

us and anyone we’re with!”
One of the sailors nodded meaningfully, clapping a hand to his head
to secure his hat. “I don’t know about any lethal Ladies, but the boy’s
right,” he shouted, struggling to be heard over the thunder. James was
gratified to see that it was Barstow, the first mate. “I’ve seen gales all
across the seven seas, and this tempest beats them all! It has intent, I tell
you. It won’t let loose without sending us to the depths, this one!”
As if in response, the Gwyndemere tilted before a blast of wind,
nearly capsizing to starboard, forcing those on deck to grasp onto railings
and rigging and each other. Precipitously, the ship swung back again,
groaning in its wallowing guts.
“James is right,” Petra shouted, standing straighter and pushing
away from Remora. “This storm was summoned by the Lady before her
powers were diminished. If we were nearer civilization or land, the
headmaster and I might be able to dispel it. But here, on the ocean…” She
glanced aside at Merlin, who nodded, reluctantly.
“The ship already lists and founders,” Barstow bellowed, clinging to
the shattered base of the aft mast with one huge hand. “If any of you has
any magical idears, I’d say put ‘em to use now or prepare to meet your
makers!”
Petra nodded at Barstow, and then took a step back toward the stern,
somehow remaining upright on the heaving, dipping deck. Splinters of
broken mast streamed back and forth around her feet, carried on rivulets of
storm water. Lightning lit her in constant strobes.
“Go below,” she declared firmly. “All of you.”
James saw her intent, even if he didn’t yet understand it. He pushed
away from his dad and reached for her, nearly stumbling to the deck
himself. “No, Petra,” he said, reaching for her hand, trying to pull her
along. She closed her hand within his, but refused to move.
“Petra,” Harry Potter said, raising his voice over the gale, managing
to sound perfectly calm. “Whatever you have in mind, there are surely
better options—”
“There are not.”
These words were spoken not by Petra, but Merlinus. He was still
standing next to Harry, his beard streaming, his heavy robes heavier with
rain. His eyes were on Petra, piercing, calculating, measuring. He shook
his head, as if reading the answer on her face, in her very posture. “There

are no other options. We cannot best the storm by power. And it will
indeed take us into the depths before its hunger is sated. We have bare
minutes left. If Miss Morganstern has a plan—”
“NO,” James bellowed, his voice rough with shock and betrayal, his
hand still clinging to Petra’s. “How can you let her do this?”
“James,” Merlin said, lowering his voice and yet somehow making
himself heard over the roar of wind and lash of rain. When James glared
back at him, finally looked into his eyes, the headmaster said his name
again. “James… this is Petra’s hard choice. You already made yours. You
let her go. Her destiny is her own now.”
“NO!” James cried again, firming his grip on Petra’s hand. There
was no connection between them anymore. He could not sense her plan, or
feel her intent. And still he understood what she meant to do. He
understood simply because he knew her, and loved her. “This isn’t what I
meant! I won’t let her do it!”
“James,” his father said, moving closer, struggling to steady himself
on the reeling deck, his glasses streaked with rain. He reached out his hand
to James, to both of them. “Come below. Let us discuss this…”
Petra shook her head sadly. “You were so good to me, Mr. Potter.
I’ll never forget. Please watch over Izzy.”
“Come below and watch over her yourself, Petra,” he smiled. It was
a stubborn smile, but even James saw the hopelessness of the gesture.
Remora spoke up in a shrill voice, her eyes blinking owlishly.
“What am I to understand is going on here? Does this young lady have
some task to perform? Is she to be…?” She glanced back and forth
between Merlin and Harry.
Barstow crooked his arm into Remora’s as the wind suddenly
pushed her, nearly bowling her over the side. “Whatever she intends to do,”
he called, “I say we let her get to it! We’re like to break up at any moment
now!”
“Go below,” Merlin said, nodding to Remora and Harry. “I shall
vouch for James’ safety, and escort him down presently. There are
goodbyes to be had, I fear, and we should respect them.”
Barstow nodded robustly and led Remora to the mid-ship stairs and
the door below decks.
Harry was obviously unwilling to leave his son and Petra. “James!”
he yelled, squinting through his spattered glasses, “you obey the

headmaster! When he says come, you come! Understand?”
James gulped hard, reluctant to promise anything, but equally
understanding that his father was one blink away from physically carrying
him below decks. Haltingly, he nodded.
“This is madness,” Harry called to Merlin. “Do you know what
you’re doing?”
“No indeed,” the headmaster declared, still observing Petra. “But
Miss Morganstern does. And we shall not underestimate her, methinks.”
Clearly warring with himself, Harry glanced back at James,
frowning with consternation. “Your mother will kill me if anything
happens to you!” he said, raising a stern finger in his direction. “Bear that
in mind, son!”
With that, he turned, groped to the stairs through the driving rain,
and worked his way down, clinging tight to the bannister.
The ship turned sluggishly, trapped in a raging, circling cyclone.
Rain beat the waves into froth all around, even as the wind drove them into
ragged peaks, seemingly as tall as the clouds.
“James,” Petra yelled to him, still holding his hand, her hair now
plastered to her head in shining ribbons. “I told you about this. In the Time
Between the Times. Do you remember?”
He shook his head firmly. Refused to look into her eyes. He
grabbed her other hand and looked down at them, at their clasped hands
between them.
He did remember, but refused to admit it.
Petra went on. “I told you that you wouldn’t like the end. But I
asked you to accept it. I hope you do, James. Because I have to do this
now, no matter what. Only, it will be easier knowing that you don’t hate me
for it.”
He wrestled with his emotions, squeezed his eyes shut, tried not to
burst out in rage, or pleading, or tears. He couldn’t look at her.
“We’ve been through this!” he cried, his voice strained. “Judith
wanted you to die. But you don’t have to!”
“It’s one thing to die for weakness,” she said, grasping his hands
tighter, begging him to meet her eyes. “It’s another thing to die for love.
And payment. It’s why we were sent back to this time. Not for Judith’s and
Donofrio’s plan. I know that now. I’ve killed, James. Long before you or
Lucy asked me not to, I gave in. I murdered. Blood calls for payment. If I

don’t make up for that now, even if I live another thousand years, I’ll never
repay the debt of guilt. This is my one chance.”
“We can outrun the storm!” he demanded, panic straining his voice.
“We did last time!”
“You stopped the storm last time with this!” she yelled, raising his
right hand in hers. “Your love, my power! You paid the price that I was
meant to, but only for a time! That’s why we’re right back where we
started. Because fate has a bigger story to tell! This isn’t losing to Judith.
It’s my chance to balance the scales!”
James refused even to consider Petra’s words. He shook his head,
cascading rainwater from his blowing hair.
The storm surged lower. Waves pushed the ship into a disastrous
list, washed over the bow and battered the galley walls. The hull twisted
and splintered, groaned deep in its very bones as the tempest condensed
around it.
James had no words. Still he could not look up at her. He sensed
Merlin standing back, observing, but not interfering. He would neither stop
Petra, nor compel her. She would make her own choice, and he would
respect it. No matter what.
The storm would claim its own.
Petra let go of James’ hands. She stood back from him, lowered her
arms weakly to her sides, waited just a moment longer.
James finally raised his eyes to her face. She was watching him,
risking everything for one final moment.
He said the only words that came into his mind. “I wish it didn’t
have to be this way.”
She seemed to accept this, and to nod agreement. Raising her voice,
she asked, “You don’t hate me?”
He slumped a little, even smiled a little with the absurdity of it.
“Petra…” he said, and then could say no more. His throat tightened with
sadness. His eyes blurred, but he refused to look away again, refused even
to blink.
She understood. She gave a wan, relieved smile of her own. She
nodded, and then raised her pale hand in a last gesture. It was halfway
between a benediction and a goodbye. And then, with her hand still raised,
she turned around, looked out over the stern railing, faced the tempest as it
collapsed all around, turning the sky black with heaving, boiling clouds.

It seemed to sense her. It condensed further, contracted, like a beast
preparing to pounce.
Petra raised her other hand now, and spread her arms, both palms
up. She tilted back her head and closed her eyes up at the storm.
The wind and rain lashed down at her as if she was a magnet. She
welcomed it, drew its attention to herself with the last of her prodigious,
sorceress powers.
Gently, she pushed up to her tiptoes on the wet deck. And then,
silently and slowly, she drifted up into the heavy air, leaving the struggling
Gwyndemere to drift on without her.
Immediately, the ship pulled away, and she arose, separating from
it. Her hair flew in loose waves, her toes pointed down at the crashing
waves below. Lightning struck her, and she absorbed it, channeled it,
willed it into a frenzy around her arms and legs. Thunder filled the sky like
a living thing, roaring, booming, making physical tremors in the wind.
The Gwyndemere pushed away, running into gradually calmer
waters. A hint of evening light washed over the deck. The rain slackened.
Petra was now barely a silhouette rising into a whirlwind of
lightning, of swirling purple-black clouds. She was the pole upon which
the tempest turned. It cast out tendrils, corkscrews of mist, surrounding her
like cosmic clutches, preparing to grasp. It revolved, tightened, and Petra
continued to rise into it, to tease it, to sing her own siren song of sacrifice.
James watched. He felt Merlin next to him, and drew a tiny shred of
cold comfort from the sorcerer’s presence.
The storm withdrew from the Gwyndemere completely. The waves
fell away. The wind faded to a bare breeze, sifted with mist, smelling of
salt and seaweed and falling night. The clouds streamed back from the
ship, surrounding a locus of tightening energy, brightening to a distinct
core, barraged with lightning and roaring with constant thunder. It
intensified, became a nearly physical presence, hulking in the sky as a
demonic maelstrom, keening and howling with hungry rage.
And then, with an eerily subtle yet pervasively deep concussion, the
storm detonated in a nearly silent shockwave of warmth and light, blasting
outward and obliterating into a million dusky tatters.
The shockwave spread in every direction, like a ripple in a farm
pond, silent and crystalline, distorting and magnifying the sky beyond as it
passed. It approached the Gwyndemere, pushing a gentle swell before it,

and sighed as it swept overhead, rippling the torn sails, trailing a single, soft
gust of wind. James felt the breeze comb through his hair like fingers,
caress his cheeks, buffet his clothes. He scented the faintest breath of floral
soap and sun-warmed skin.
And then it was gone. The Gwyndemere bobbed slightly on the
wake of the shockwave, and then settled. The ocean lay silent and still, as
if exhausted.
James lowered his eyes. He was afraid to look back at the tatters of
the storm, afraid that Petra’s silent body might come falling out of it, empty
of all that had defined her, dropping through the air to splash faintly into the
weary sea, and sink down through the cold forgetfulness beneath.
That probably wouldn’t happen. Petra had given all of herself to
save him and everyone aboard the Gwyndemere. But believing that she had
simply vanished was too tempting a thought. Like Merlin on the Night of
the Unveiling, a vanished sorcerer or sorceress might not be completely
dead. They might still come back.
Petra was never, ever coming back. Petra was, utterly and finally,
no more.
James’ feet moved of their own accord, carrying him to the deck
railing. He saw his hands reach out, grasp the railing in the middle of the
stern, exactly where she had stood.
Merlin made no move to stop him, or to interrupt his moment of
woe.
Voices and footsteps carried up from below. They were happy, even
joyful, bursting with relief at the sudden end of the storm. James heard
Ralph and Albus, Lily and his mother. He heard his Uncle Percy and Aunt
Audrey and the ship’s captain, Farragut. He heard Lucy.
And he heard Izzy. She was laughing with the others, gladdened
with relief, ready to rejoice on the wet bow and watch as the deck hands
attempted to reparo the ship, to mend it for the remainder of their journey.
James couldn’t look back. He couldn’t bear to think of Izzy’s
imminent, inconsolable grief. He couldn’t approach even his own less
tangible loss.
A hand covered his shoulder, large and warm. He assumed it was
Merlin.
It was his father.
Quietly, he said, “I’m sorry, son.”

And that was all he said.
The two of them stood that way for some time, until the moon arose
over the silent ocean and the storm was nothing more than a fading
memory. They stood there until everyone else had gone back down below
decks again, much more somberly than they had appeared.
Harry Potter stood with his son, held his arm around him in the
dark. Harry knew all about loss, about wounds of the heart that would
never truly heal. He was acquainted with grief.
Harry stood with his son.
He was patient.

27. THE TRIPLE-SIX ENIGMA
James woke up with a start, and nearly fell out of the Gwyndemere’s
bunk. His heart was pounding and his mind reeled with confusion. He
groped blearily, tried to scramble to his feet, still half-captured in the grip of
urgent, feverish dreams.
A hand pushed his shoulder gently, pressing him back onto the bed.
“There we are,” a woman’s voice said, calm but insistent, as if she
had been watching him, waiting for him to awaken. “Finally coming
around, then. And what a horrible dream you must be leaving behind. It’s
all right. You’re safe.”
The hand left his shoulder, reversed, and lay briefly against his
forehead.
“Fever’s nearly past,” the woman sighed with relief. “You’ll be
back on your feet in no time. And not a moment too soon. The headmaster
has asked to speak to you the instant you’re awake and about.”
“Are we arrived yet?” James croaked. His mouth was as dry as
cotton. His throat felt like it had been scrubbed with steel wool. He opened

his eyes, focused on a high ceiling and a row of bright, sunny windows, tall
as pillars.
This was not the Gwyndemere.
“You’re back home, James,” the woman said, turning away and
bustling over a tray, clinking vials and wiping her hands on a towel. “Back
home safe and sound at Hogwarts.”
James startled again and pushed himself up onto his elbows,
glancing around in profound confusion. The woman turned quickly at the
sound of his movements, a vial in each hand. It was Madame Curio.
He was in the hospital wing, lying in the middle of the ward on the
only unmade bed. Morning sunbeams lay across the sleepy room, lit with
dozing dust motes.
“How did we…?” he asked, snapping his gaze back to Madame
Curio. “But I thought…!?”
“You apparated right out of the school!” the healer said shrilly, half
chiding, half amazed. She put down the vials and returned to the bed. “The
ban was lifted during testing, of course, like usual, although only from the
inside out, just to be safe. Nobody expected anyone from inside the school
to apparate out of it. But off you went! Popped away to the cemetery in
Godric’s Hollow of all places! It’s just a good thing that the headmaster
was able to track you and bring you back. Why, you’ve been unconscious
and raving all night long! What in the wide world were you thinking?”
James struggled up to a sitting position on the bed and frowned at
his spinning thoughts. He could tell by the feel of his own body that he was
back to his older, taller self, once again a seventh year. “But… reality was
vanished away when Petra went through the portal! The whole world was
disappearing! How…?” He looked around again, amazed at the perfectly
normal room, the distant rabble and rumble of students moving between
classes, the waft of summer breeze pushing in through the open windows,
lifting the sheer drapes into billows.
Madame Curio clucked her tongue and touched his forehead again,
cursorily. “Triple-six fever,” she said with a shake of her head, making
James blink at her in confusion. She saw his look and clucked her tongue
again. “Don’t worry, dear. It will all come back to you. The headmaster
said you might be a touch befuzzled when you came around.”
As she said this, she glanced away over her shoulder, raising her
eyebrows.

James followed her glance, craning to look behind him, toward the
pebbled glass ward doors.
Merlin was just standing up from the bench along the rear wall,
tucking his tiny book into his robes as he did so.
“I presume our charge is back to his usual self?” he asked mildly.
“For better or worse,” Madame Curio answered, suppressing a small
smile. “Presuming he doesn’t attempt any more addled cross-country
apparations.”
“I think it safe to assume that such episodes are well behind us,” the
headmaster nodded with confidence. “Come, Mr. Potter. A brief discussion
in my office should prove illuminating.”

“They called it ‘the triple-six enigma’,” he said as he settled himself
into the chair behind his huge desk. “It first began appearing as vague
portents and prophecies almost five years ago. Just the three numbers, sixsix-six. They showed up in old women’s tea leaves, and old men’s
octocards, and even the crystal balls of students here in Madame
Trelawney’s classes. People began dreaming of the strange symbol: three
sixes, always arranged in a rough circle, two small ones on top, a larger one
on the bottom. It wasn’t until winter of this year, however, that the
prophecies became more urgent, and even Muggles became haunted by the
symbol. Finally, the significance of the triple sixes revealed itself. It
wasn’t a random equation, or the sign of the devil, as many understandably
assumed.” He looked at James and raised his eyebrows. “It was simply a
date. The sixth day, of the sixth month, of a year equating to six. This year,
as you may remember, is the twenty-third year of the second millennium.
Two multiplied by three.”
“Equals six,” James answered faintly, settling slowly onto one of the
small visitor’s chairs before the desk. Voices could be heard wafting in
through the open window, carried on a warm breeze from the Quidditch

pitch. The Ravenclaw team was getting in a last minute practice before the
tournament tomorrow.
“Elementary arithmancy,” Merlin nodded. “And yet none knew
why that date—June the sixth, two thousand and twenty three—had such
significance. Many seers consulted their preferred divinations. Even the
centaurs measured the portents and formulated their own dire predictions,
with much drama as a result. Only recently, they came to our very
courtyard in numbers, warning that if the omen came to pass, they would
arise in force to wrest control of the magical world, for the good of all
humanity. We were able to mollify them by diplomacy, but only just.
“Thus, as the months passed and the date approached, what began as
a mysterious diversion grew into a sustained obsession, even a mania.
“People began to experience terrible, vivid nightmares. Signs were
observed in the skies, the clouds and stars, even in the patterns of nature.
Many of the trees awakened from their ancient slumber, and spoke to
terrified witnesses. Across the world, thousands of people, both magical
and Muggle, experienced apocalyptic visions. The details of every
prophecy were always nebulous, but certain patterns emerged. A world
slowly grinding to a fatal stop. The breaking down of natural laws and
ancient rules. The darkening of the eyes of destiny until the world itself
was swept away into oblivion. The power of the portent grew daily,
exponentially. But alas, no one fully divined what fate was about to
happen, or what could be done to prevent it, or even if it was anything more
than mass hysteria, a mere corporate delusion unleashed upon the world
like a virus of the mind.”
James was beginning to grasp a strange sense of the headmaster’s
tale. Memories were resurfacing, though very hazily: increasingly shrill
articles in the Daily Prophet about people building magical shelters in their
basements and yards, or about Muggles selling everything they owned to
buy stores of food, and medical supplies, and weapons, hastily preparing to
stave off the mysterious end.
James looked up from this reverie. Narrowing his eyes suspiciously,
he asked, “What day is it today?”
“Today, Mr. Potter,” Merlin answered with a small smile, “is June
the seventh.”
James felt a release of long-sustained tension. It leaked out of his
shoulders and neck, slowly, sifting away like sand. He drifted back into the

chair, allowed its cool leather upholstery to collect him. “It didn’t happen,”
he said, almost to himself.
“Indeed,” the headmaster nodded. “It did not happen. After a night
of much fretting, of midnight vigils and frantic crowds, of millions
watching the skies and oceans, of families huddled in terror, and entire
villages marching en masse to confront imagined harbingers of doom… the
darkness faded, and the sun came up, and the birds sang their happy songs.
Life, with the perfect blitheness of ancient habit, simply went on. As of this
morning, the population of the world has metaphorically blinked with
surprise, shuffled its feet in mingled embarrassment and relief, laughed a
little at itself, and with a bemused shrug, gone back about its normal
business.”
James didn’t have any response to this. His mind was a pleasant
buzz of shock, and relief, and wonderment. More memories were slowly
coming back to him: his previous few years, generally uneventful but
packed with regular, everyday concerns. The months of his last year of
school, spooling along only loosely tainted by worries of the triple-six
enigma. Up until the past week or so, that was, when the dreams had
begun: dreams of a different but all-too-familiar version of reality, of an
ocean journey to betrayal, and the Dark Mark hovering over a country
cemetery, and Petra Morganstern leveling a wand at Albus’ chest…
The dreams and visions had mixed with reality until he couldn’t
separate one from the other. And then, completely saturated with the
nightmare portents of Petra and Judith, Odin-Vann and Albus and the
disintegrating vow of secrecy, he had broken away, apparated out to the
cemetery in Godric’s Hollow, convinced that he had the world to save,
desperately and hopelessly. The world… and Petra Morganstern.
Although even in the dream, he had only succeeded at the former.
“You and I,” Merlin said in a low, secretive voice, lowering his chin
and studying James closely, “are two of the only three living people who
know the truth. The triple-six enigma was not, in fact, a dream. It was not
a delusion, or mass hysteria. To the contrary, it was simply something
terrible that almost happened… but then somehow didn’t.”
James’ heart thudded in his chest. He met the headmaster’s gaze.
“So… what I think I remember… really did happen?”
Merlin nodded again. “In a reality only one small step removed
from this one, yes. You alone have lived both destinies. Everyone else

alive in this sphere merely dreamed of the other possibility, vaguely and in
part, because it was so barely avoided. Even I only know what I do because
my prodigious arts were augmented by a mutual acquaintance. The man
whom you once knew as Rechtor Grudje, among other names, may be a
permanent inmate of the sanatorium ward of St. Mungo’s hospital, but his
skill at reverse prophecy is as powerful as ever. He, who now goes by the
name of Timothy Dumbledore, is the secret third of our trio. He assisted
me, and was much gratified to be of service. He is a changed man from the
villain you once knew, you may be glad to know. He has been greatly
benefitted in the years since his mind was freed of the caged memories of
his legendary uncle.”
James frowned, squinted with dawning bewilderment. “But… that
couldn’t have happened, could it? The whole affair of the Morrigan Web,
that was from the other destiny! That couldn’t also have happened
here…?”
“Alas,” Merlin said almost cheerfully, pushing back in his chair and
producing a sustained groan from its joints. “You shall find that there are
far fewer changes in this world than you might expect. In fact, it might be
simpler for me to explain the few things that have changed—apart from the
fact that the world continues to exist, of course—than those that haven’t.”
James sat up again, placing his hands on the armrest with interest.
A beam of sunlight warmed his feet as it crept slowly across the office
floor, tracking the climbing sun.
Merlin seemed to be enjoying a certain smug amusement. “The
Morrigan Web did indeed happen, for example, almost exactly as you
remember it. The Quidditch summit occurred. Your father and aunt and
uncle were temporarily arrested for destroying the Crystal Chalice. Rechtor
Grudje was confronted by his benefactor and nemesis, Albus Dumbledore,
and that wizard’s captive memories were extricated from his mind, allowing
him to assume his original identity as Timothy, son of Arianna.”
“But,” James interjected, still frowning in consternation. “The
Morrigan Web was only prevented because Petra was there to… to…”
The words trailed off as the memory of Petra surfaced in his mind.
A coolness came with it, sadness filling in the spaces around his cautious,
budding relief.
Merlin drew a solemn sigh. “You are quite right. Miss Morganstern
was not there in our reality. She died tragically, years earlier, sacrificing

herself for the safety of many others. Thus, she did not, as you may
remember, use the Morrigan Web to lure the Lady of the Lake into a fateful
confrontation. She did not hire the unusual Muggle detective to track and
reveal the Lady’s destructive plan.”
James was dumbfounded. “But then… who did?”
“Her sister,” Merlin replied simply, his eyes sharpening. “Miss
Isabella Morganstern. Known to you and the rest of the world as Izzy.
Much of what you might remember Petra Morganstern doing in that other
history, young Izzy did in this one.”
“Izzy…?” James repeated softly, leaning back into his chair again,
weak with wonder. “But… she’s not even a witch!”
“Nor is she a Muggle,” Merlin said, raising a hand. “Not since her
time with her departed sister. Izzy Morganstern is perhaps the most unusual
living being currently on this planet. She is what might be described as a
Guardian. She has subtle powers that derive neither from any witchy blood
nor from the banked forces around her. She taps into something beyond all
knowledge and technomancy, immeasurable and strange, something
imparted to her by her sister, probably without her even knowing.”
James shook his head slowly, stunned, and yet somehow not
particularly surprised. He looked back at Merlin again. “What else?”
Merlin nodded and drew a deep breath to speak. “The Lady known
as Judith was utterly defeated on the night of the Morrigan Web. Her time
in this world was already dwindling since her host, the unfortunate Mr.
Odin-Vann, was killed the year previous, during a raid in Muggle New York
City, on the night of a holiday parade. The joined forces of your father’s
Auror department and the American Muggle Integration Bureau discovered
Mr. Odin-Vann standing over the murdered body of an American senator, a
man called Charles Filmore. It was not your father that fired the killing
spell, however. It seems that young Mr. Odin-Vann was killed by a Muggle
bullet, shot from the weapon of an American M.I.B. agent named Price.
Self defence, since Odin-Vann was observed brandishing a wand. Later
evidence suggests that Judith sacrificed her host in order to facilitate her
own escape mere seconds earlier. Already dying in her absence, Odin-Vann
was left behind as a distraction. This act of desperate cowardice sealed
Judith’s fate, of course, since the death of her host uprooted her from our
world.
“You might be interested to know that the Lady was eventually

defeated not by young Isabella Morganstern’s uncanny magic, nor by the
combined force of Mr. Titus Hardcastle and his squad of Aurors. She was
attacked and ultimately dispatched by a certain pink snake, a manifestation
of the fractured personality of an American witch that I believe you know
rather well.”
“Nastasia…?” James exhaled, a smile of astonishment dawning on
his face. “She killed Judith?”
“Not precisely,” Merlin shrugged, as if admitting a mere
technicality. “Firstly, Judith was not killed, at least not in the human sense.
She was banished forever back into the dark netherworld from which she
came. And secondly, it was only the Ashya part of Miss Hendricks that
attacked and unmade her. The other half refused to betray her erstwhile
comrade. But unlike in the destiny that you knew, in this world, the Ashya
half survived. She rejoined her twin self, Nasti. And while one would be
hesitant to say that Nastasia Hendricks lives happily ever after, she does, at
the very least, carry on as a rather troublesome and complicated student of
Alma Aleron. You and she have become well acquainted, in fact. I believe
the currently popular term for a relationship like yours is ‘frenemies’.”
James blew out a bemused, relieved sigh. “That sounds about
right.” He sobered again. “But… if Petra never made it to Alma Aleron,
that means the Archive was never broken into. So the Night of the
Unveiling never happened?”
Merlin nodded and narrowed his eyes thoughtfully. “With Petra
Morganstern deceased, her thread was no longer a part of the Loom’s
weaving. Thus, Judith had no option for switching the Looms and stealing
the crimson thread of Petra’s unfortunate doppelganger, Morgan. That story
never occurred in this history, and quite thankfully so.
“Instead, on the occasion you know as the Night of the Unveiling, I
battled Judith personally, having tracked her after her escape from the
murder scene of Senator Filmore. She had fled once again into the nearby
ocean waters, where her strength was greatest. I foolishly pursued her,
battling her in force. When she threatened to reveal her water-gorgon form
to the coast of the city, and to attack it in fury, I summoned what power I
had left and obliterated her, undoing myself at the same time.
“Alas, while it took me one full year to return from the realm of the
dead, it took her mere weeks to reassemble. She was not yet weakened
enough by the death of her host. This was my error. But thankfully, her

destruction was yet only a matter of time.”
“So you went missing during my fourth year, just like in the
alternate timeline,” James said, amazed. The headmaster was right. Fewer
things had changed than he could have expected. History had indeed found
a way to keep happening. And yet the outcome was magnificently different
nonetheless. He looked at Merlin and prodded again, “What else?”
Merlin shrugged. “The Vow of Secrecy still erodes slightly,
gradually each year. But this is only the result of plain entropy and time,
not any devastating revelations.” He bobbed his head, raising his eyes in
thought. “You and your friends did manage to unleash a dragon into
Muggle London, your mission complicated by a particularly disgruntled
house elf whose service had been recently supplanted by humans, albeit of
the magical variety. The Elven uprising is a nasty business, spurred on by
inevitable changes in culture as time marches on. But it is no global
revolution, as it was in your alternate history.
“Reaching farther back, you and your Alma Aleron friends in
Bigfoot house still won the Clutchcudgel tournament during your third,
inspiring year. You, along with Misters Walker and Deedle, still travelled
back into nineteenth century Philadelphia and observed the death of the
villain, Ignatius Magnussen. You collected the relic unicorn’s horseshoe,
just as you remember, and used it to tread the World Between the Worlds.
The single difference is that you accomplished these tasks only to prove and
locate the hiding place of the rogue Lady, who had indeed escaped into that
mysterious realm to regain her strength after our battle, with her human host
always in tow.”
James asked, “And it was Izzy alone that accompanied us into the
World Between the Worlds?”
Merlin nodded meaningfully. “Your father, as you are likely now
remembering, took Petra’s final request very seriously. He took Izzy into
your home, considered her as a daughter, sister to you and Albus and Lily.
There, she matured swiftly. Tragedy always has that affect upon those who
survive. But Izzy’s growth was quite clearly augmented by her time with
her stepsister Petra. Almost from the start, she showed razor-sharp insights
bordering on the precognitive. She practiced strange, burgeoning powers.
And she devoured books. Every book she could get her small hands on,
reading, and absorbing, and memorizing, always adding to her powers with
knowledge and wisdom. And yet, unlike her sorceress sister, Izzy’s

peculiar magic was somehow purified by her Muggle heritage. The mind
that her hateful mother had called simple was, in fact, the mind perfectly
suited to harbor and subordinate some of the most eerie powers imaginable.
Evil will never have the slightest foothold in her. Nor vengeance. Nor
selfish ambition.
“And she no longer lives with my family,” James said, as his
memories slowly returned.
“She does, sometimes,” Merlin admitted. “Your family will always
be her home. But she has other places. She is a young lady of many
secrets. But unlike virtually every other person on the planet, one can be
certain that Izzy’s secrets are kept not for her own questionable motives, but
for the benevolent security of the world that she inhabits.”
“She and her dolls,” James remembered, his eyes widening slightly.
“Beatrice. And Mr. Bobkins. And all the others. She takes them with her
most of the time. Only, sometimes when she doesn’t, you get the strongest
feeling that she left them behind on purpose, and they’re not just dolls.
They aren’t scary, exactly. They’re even a little comforting to have around,
because they’re hers, and they reflect her. But they do seem to be thinking
things. Watching the world for her, maybe.”
Merlin sat forward in his chair again, as if recognizing that the
meeting was nearly concluded. There were classes to get to, James
suddenly remembered. N.E.W.T. examinations were underway. He himself
had several more to attend to.
The headmaster moved a few parchments on his desk. “I expect that
as time passes, the history you once knew will again be supplanted by the
history you now occupy. While most things remain in near perfect
continuity, you will find a few unexpected details here and there. Your
Aunt Hermione, for example, is the Minister of Magic.”
James had been getting to his feet, but he dropped back again with
those words, his eyes bulging so wide that they blurred slightly. “You’re
joking!”
Merlin shook his head soberly. “Decent men joke not about
politics. She is indeed the Minister, replacing Mr. Loquacious Knapp
nearly two years previous. Further such minor shocks shall occur in the
coming days. It would be wise to be prepared for them, lest your friends
worry for your mental health.”
Aunt Hermione being Minister of Magic did not strike James as an

example of a ‘minor shock’, but he understood the headmaster’s point
nonetheless. He made to get up from the chair once more, finding himself
already reluctant to return to the old mundanity of classes and schoolwork,
despite—or perhaps because of—his immense relief.
But a thought came to him then, and he settled back into the chair.
“A question, James?” the headmaster asked, arching an eyebrow,
putting down his parchments.
James shook his head distantly, unsure how to even ask, not
knowing what words to form the ideas with. Finally, groping, he said,
“What was it that happened between Petra and I? The silver thread that
connected us for those lost, undone years. The shared power between us.
The payment that she apparently had to make in the end to save us all…”
He sighed deeply, running out of words, and looked up at Merlin, a little
helplessly.
Merlin leaned back again and steepled his fingers. “You are more
aware than many others, I think, of what makes a Horcrux, and how it
works. Am I correct, James?”
James frowned a little. “A Horcrux is a bargain with dark magic. A
dark witch or wizard can make one if they kill another person. The horrible
power of that act lets them break off a part of their soul, and secure it in
case their body gets killed.”
Merlin consented to this description, imprecise as it surely was. “It
has been said that evil cannot create. It can only pervert. And this is true in
the case of the Horcrux. For that dark magic is only a shadow copy of a
much greater and more powerful Deep Magic. The ancient ones called it
the Lex Carita, and this is the pact that your grandmother made for her son,
Harry Potter, and that you made on behalf of Petra when you were ready to
die to save her.
“And yet the Horcrux and the Lex Carita are in no way twins. They
are exact opposites. Where a Horcrux hoards the taker’s life via another’s
murder, the Lex Carita preserves another’s life via the giver’s sacrifice.
While a Horcrux’s bargain is capricious, always seeking to renege its
promise, the Lex Carita is a pact of charity, always giving many times
more. This is why your connection to Petra followed you into the past,
before the moment of its very creation, while Petra’s Horcrux abandoned
her the instant that she left her natural timeline. But most importantly, the
Horcrux offers only a poisoned half-life, where the Lex Carita grants

perpetual and striving wellbeing.”
James’ thoughts darkened as he listened. When Merlin finished, he
looked up at the headmaster, meeting his eyes. “But if this Lex Carita thing
is supposed to bring wellbeing to the person it saves, then why did Petra
end up right back on the Gwyndemere? Why did she have to die?”
“You assume your own definition of a person’s wellbeing,” Merlin
said, not without sympathy. “Wellbeing doesn’t mean mere happiness and
safety. Wellbeing extends to the very depths of a person’s role in the
tapestry of destiny. Petra was indeed a crimson thread, for her balance was
in the red. She told you so herself: she had killed. The guilt of murder
claimed her and defined her. Her turning point was not the Night of the
Unveiling, or the gazebo in the lake, or even the Chamber of Secrets.
Petra’s turning point was when she turned pain into vengeance. It was
when she joined her own sister’s small powers with hers to kill the girl’s
very mother. For that reason, the Lex Carita pact was less interested in
preserving Petra’s mere life. It was intent on helping her balance the scales
of her deepest soul.”
James found this an immensely and exquisitely unsatisfying
answer. He pushed back into the chair, arms folded, his face set into a dark
scowl of resolve. Perhaps someday he would accept this concept of greater
good, and deeper right, and intangible redemption.
But not right now.
For now, he only mourned Petra. Silently, angrily, and hopelessly.
A minute later, he tramped down the spiral stairs to the Gargoyle
corridor, just as classes resumed and doors banged shut all around, cutting
off the noise of settling voices and squeaking chairs. A warm breeze,
smelling of mown grass and lake mist, pushed through the windows lining
the left wall. James stopped and took a deep breath, orienting himself to
this imminently familiar yet delicately different reality.
“James,” a girl’s voice said from the corridor behind him, echoing in
the falling silence.
James turned around, and then took an involuntary step backward,
his breath catching, his heart pounding up into his throat.
“What?” the girl asked, smiling with bemused surprise, “you look
like you just saw a ghost. Other than Professor Binns, of course, whose
class I am currently late for.”
“You…” James breathed, blinking with fragile, unexpected joy. He

moved to her, stood in front of her, looked her up and down.
His cousin Lucy blushed a little in her Hufflepuff uniform. Her dark
eyes darted to the window. It had been years since she had gotten over her
crush on him, but clearly there was still a hint of something more than
friendship between them. It wasn’t like they were blood relatives, after all.
She used her right hand to comb a stray raven lock out of her eyes.
“I heard about what happened yesterday,” she said, glancing back up
at him. “About how you went a little mental with triple-six fever and
apparated off to a cemetery or something. Millie told me. The whole
Hufflepuff common room was having a laugh about it. I told them it wasn’t
at all funny and that you surely had a good and important reason for what
you did.”
With a warm rush, James remembered. He remembered his cousin’s
unfailing loyalty, her boundless inner strength, her almost unconscious
leadership. His smile widened into a helpless grin, and then a laugh of pure
delight. Unable to help himself, he threw his arms around her and gave a
brief, fierce embrace.
“Blimey,” she said, her voice muffled against his shoulder, “I don’t
think it deserves all that. Get off me before anyone gets any weird ideas!
Especially ‘Dolohov’ and Rose.” She pushed him away, a little ruffled, but
clearly pleased nonetheless. “Come on,” she said, hefting her knapsack.
“Walk with me to class. And tell me the truth…”
“Anything you want,” James agreed, nearly bursting with good
humour. Together, they turned and made their way along the hall, walking
in and out of warm sunbeams.
“Did you have a good reason for what happened last night?” she
asked, glancing aside at him critically. “Only, I know you don’t have the
best record when it comes to odd excuses. Sorry,” she shrugged a little
apologetically. “You did miss six whole years of Quidditch tryouts.”
James laughed again and shook his head. “Last night’s excuse is no
better or worse than any of the others, I guess.” He looked aside at her
again, unable, at least for the moment, to take his eyes off her. “But that’s a
boring thing to talk about. Tell me what’s been going on with you, Lu.”
She shot him another bemused look. “Are you sure you’re all
right? You act as if you haven’t seen me in months.”
“More like years,” he grinned, his eyes twinkling with mischief.
“Tell. And I want to hear absolutely everything.”

She shook her head at him as if he was having her on somehow.
She didn’t answer his request on their way to History of Magic.
But she did answer it eventually.
In the years to come, she told him absolutely everything.

EPILOGUE
NINETEEN YEARS LATER
“It was right here,” James said to the young girl at his side. “Right
here on this stretch of lawn that I graduated almost twenty years ago. Of
course, the actual ceremony took place over in the amphitheatre, like it will
today, with the families and everything. But that was just the boring part,
where we wore our formal robes and they gave out the diplomas and we all
shook the headmaster’s hand and they played the Hogwarts salute on
bagpipes and harpsichord. The real party was later that night, right here on
the lawn overlooking the lake. They put up a huge white tent—only it was
nowhere near so huge on the outside as it was when you went in—and we
had Rig Mortiss and the Stifftones play live, and we all danced and ate
loads too much, and I and Zane Walker and some of his Ravenclaw mates
snuck out the back for butterbeers and even a few firewhiskeys, and Ralph
and some of the teachers caught us but just chastised us for setting a bad
example, since we were all already graduated and there was nothing they
could do to us anymore.”
“You drank firewhiskey at your graduation?” the girl asked.
“Well, I pretended to. I never did have much of a taste for the stuff.
But Zane said I was a hinkypunk’s uncle if I didn’t, and even I wasn’t
immune to a little friendly peer pressure back in the day.”
The girl frowned. When she did, she looked a lot like her mother,
Lily. “It’s weird to think of the headmaster as ever being young enough to
get into trouble for one firewhiskey.”
“Well,” James hemmed, “I’m not officially headmaster yet. Not
until Neville hands out the diplomas at today’s ceremony.”
“Neville is Headmaster Longbottom, then?” the girl asked, reaching
to take her uncle’s hand. She tugged him back toward the castle and the
amphitheatre beyond. “Why’s he retiring, anyway? He’s not old like
Headmaster Merlin was when he retired. Or McGonagall before him. I
mean, yeah, Headmaster Longbottom’s old, all right. But they were
positively geologic!”

“Merlin really wasn’t all that old,” James smiled and shrugged,
allowing himself to be pulled along. “He just looked like it. He’s still
around, unlike McGonagall, God rest her grumpy soul. Merlin just has
other things he wants to do. He doesn’t stay in any one job or place for
very long. He’s restless. He did his part here.”
“Same for Headmaster Longbottom?” the girl asked, squinting up at
him in the sun. “He has other things he wants to do?”
James nodded uncertainly. “Herbology is his passion. He wants to
travel the world. Discover new species of man-eating trees and whatnot.
Write books about them. It’s his first love.”
“What about you? Will you still be here when I start Hogwarts in a
few years? Or will you get tired of being headmaster, too?”
James considered it. “You know, Arianna, I don’t think I will get
tired of it. I think I’ll stay here until I am a very, very old man. Perhaps
even geologic.”
“Now that’s old,” Arianna agreed gravely.
Together, they walked around the Sylvven tower to the
amphitheatre, which droned with assembling voices.
Zane was at the ceremony, as was Ralph and Rose, each with their
spouses, each wearing dress robes except for Zane, who sported a dark suit
with a bile yellow tie. His wife Cheshire kept distractedly checking a scroll
of thick parchment, nicking it out of her purse and unrolling it in her lap,
peering down at it.
“They’re fine,” Zane muttered aside at her as the ceremony got
underway. “They’re with my mom and dad. They had kids of their own.
Greer and I managed to survive.”
“Joanna and Quentin are a serious handful,” Cheshire whispered
back. “It’s not their survival I’m worried about.”
Rose’s husband, Aleksander Volkiev, whom they had first met at
Durmstrang back during James’ fourth year, sat as rigid as a statue, his chin
up-thrust, his back as straight as a tyre iron. His slate grey robes fit him as
if they had been sewn directly onto his body by elves. Considering how
little James knew about Volkiev’s Belarusian magical heritage, it was
entirely possible that they had been.
James recalled, somewhat wistfully, that Rose and Zane had dated
for a fairly long few years. In the end, his brash irreverence had
overpowered his irrepressible charm, and she had tearfully called it off.

Volkiev, by comparison, was an icy Siberian river compared to Zane’s
American waterslide, and was therefore (unfortunately, in James’ unspoken
opinion) a much better fit for Rose’s serious, practical mind. Their own
oldest child, Fred Aleksey, was in attendance alongside them, wearing his
first year Hogwarts robes. He sat just like his father, bolt upright and stoic,
but his face and green eyes were entirely Weasley. James had a suspicion
that there was more than a little mischief hiding beneath that practiced
posture. He would have to keep an eye on young Mr. Fred Aleksey. Albeit,
not too close an eye. He did want the boy to have a little fun.
Ralph and Ashley Doone (now Dolohov) sat together on James’
right. Ashley’s belly was as round as a punch bowl beneath her strained
robes. She rubbed it with one hand and fanned herself with the other.
Ralph’s face was a carefully constructed mask of respectful attention, but
James knew that the big man was constantly, almost obsessively, shifting
his eyes to his wife and their unborn child. Throughout the ceremony, he
checked on her quietly, offered to fan her with his program, or simply
stroked the back of her head, doting on her with almost comical devotion.
James couldn’t blame him. They had been childless for the nearly
twelve years of their marriage, which was exactly eleven years longer than
Ralph had wanted to be. Ashley bore his ministrations with affectionate
patience, smiling wanly in the afternoon sun.
Arianna sat with her own parents, Lily and Graham Warton—a
union that James could not begin to understand even to this day, a decade
after it had been announced to the world via a surprise wedding in
Hogsmeade. It seemed to work for them, if occasionally tumultuously,
judging by the number of times that Lily showed up at her parents’ old
house in Marble Arch “needing to talk”!
More familiar faces dotted the assembled crowd. James saw
Scorpius and Nastasia halfway around the bowl of the amphitheatre, him
watching with stoic boredom, her peering down at the parchment in her
own lap, scribbling things with her finger. Her hair was no longer pink.
Today, it was a sort of aquamarine at the crown of her head, fading to a
bright acid green at its flouncy, pixie tips. It would probably be neon blue
by the time they arrived at the reception. They were not a happy couple,
quite. And yet they were somehow perfect for each other, James thought,
sharing their time between her residence in Muggle New York city, where
she was a freelance writer and “professional malcontent”, and wizarding

Diagon Alley, where Scorpius had followed in his father’s footsteps at
Gringotts bank.
Their own three children, Wentz, Beckett, and Urie, were apparently
at their London flat in the charge of their house elf nanny.
Hagrid was also in attendance, of course, near the front, his broad
back and now-grey bushy hair blocking at least three full seats behind him.
Elsewhere, James spied Gennifer Tellus and Noah Metzker, Uncle George
and Ted Lupin, Lucy and her grown sister Molly, and of course, the couple
whose firstborn son they were there to celebrate, Damian and Sabrina
Damascus. They sat near the front, on the row opposite Hagrid, beaming
with fierce joy as their son, young Damian Junior, crossed the stage and
accepted his enormous rolled diploma from headmaster Longbottom, who
shook the boy’s hand firmly and smiled. There was, James saw, a stiffness
in Neville’s smile, a certain admonitory brittleness at the edges.
Damian Junior ignored this. He tucked his diploma under one arm,
turned to the crowd, and raised both fists to his head. He jammed his
extended thumbs into his ears and stuck out his pinkies, waggling them
energetically.
“Gremlin salute!” his father cried from the audience, jumping to his
feet and returning the gesture, his square face positively brick red with
pride.
Gennifer Tellus hooted and jumped up as well, as did Ted Lupin,
Noah Metzker, and a few of the other original Gremlins. Zane was on his
feet, joining in the gesture even before Cheshire knew what was
happening. The crowd murmured with mixed laughter and annoyance.
Cheshire yanked Zane frantically by his coattail, pulling him back down
into his seat.
James wanted to join in, but reluctantly chose not to. It would likely
be considered unseemly for an incoming headmaster. Besides, he had never
been particular good at Gremlinery.
On the stage, Neville rolled his eyes and shook his head, drawing a
weary hand to his brow.
Later that night, the white tent was once again erected on the lawn
overlooking the lake. Most of the families had gone home, but Ralph,
Rose, Scorpius, and Albus had stayed behind, ostensibly to serve as
chaperones, although James well knew that they were mostly there for their
own nostalgic reasons.

The group divided their time between halfhearted patrols around the
tent for illicit consumption of firewhiskey and a largish round table near the
tent entrance, where they congregated and reminisced and caught up on
each other’s new lives.
Ralph, like Scorpius, had followed in his father’s footsteps,
becoming the official technical security liaison to the Ministry of Magic.
He alone had been responsible for the complete and comprehensive update
of the Rules of Secrecy, which encompassed everything from Artificial
Stupidity hexes for Muggle GPS devices to new official terminology of the
ages-old Vow of Secrecy that all magical citizens took upon coming of age.
Thanks to him, the wizarding world was, if not more secure than ever,
certainly no less secure than it had been back when James himself was a
first year and a lone Muggle reporter had forced himself, via pure bloodyminded determination, through the unplottable boundary of the Forbidden
Forest and into Hogwarts School.
Rose had become a partner in Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes, opening
its first American location in New Amsterdam to much fanfare and
unexpected success. She was now negotiating store franchises in locations
all across both America and the UK, while juggling the more prosaic
responsibilities of taking care of their younger son, Ivan Arthur, while
Volkiev trained to assume command of the Harrier Corps from the soonretiring Viktor Krum.
Zane had become a writer of fiction stories, partnering with the
Muggle detective, Marshall Paris, for a series of novels based on his
completely bizarre and inexplicable adventures. His first novel, “Bullets
are Forever”, had not been a bestseller, but it had been popular enough to
gain the attention of a huge wizarding publishing firm in New Amsterdam.
His latest book, “X Equals Revenge”, was the fifth in the Marshall Paris
series, slated for release during the upcoming Christmas season.
“That’s the key,” Zane said conspiratorially. “I could publish my
grocery list, and if it came out on the first of November, it would sell like
lemonade at Hades’ gates. It’s all a racket! But a racket that works in my
favor, so I don’t complain one tiny bit.”
James knew there was more to Zane’s success than mere release
dates, but appreciated his old friend’s tactful self-deprecation.
Albus, of course, didn’t talk much about what he was doing. As
chief deputy Auror, second only to their dad, there wasn’t much he was

allowed to talk about, at any rate. Instead, Rose asked him about his wife,
Fiera. Albus responded happily, talking about her and their daughter, Fiona
Constance, with the deliberate detail of a man avoiding other, more
sensitive topics.
Altogether, they offered up the typical middle-aged laments,
obligatory and blithe. They were all living pretty much exactly the lives
that they had hoped and dreamed of, even if, in actual practice, those lives
were rather more prosaic and bland than they might ever have expected.
The gathering toasted James’ new position, clinking various glasses
of butterbeer, blackcurrant wine, and one firewhiskey (Albus, of course).
They lamented the continued lack of a Gryffindor house ghost, ever since
Nearly Headless Nick had made it into the Headless Hunt, well over two
decades earlier.
When the party was over, or at least winding down to its final dregs,
James abandoned the tent and made his way to the empty Gryffindor
common room.
Not much had changed. There were a few newer chairs and tables.
The sofa beneath the window had been replaced with one that was, while
still threadbare and sagging, not quite as threadbare and sagging as the one
that he remembered. The bust of Godric Gryffindor, chipped and battered,
stood on the mantel, just begging to be used in one more game of Winkles
and Augers.
James’ old bed up in the boys’ tower had long since been refinished,
the words WHINY POTTER GIT expunged permanently from its
headboard. This was probably a good thing, considering his new position.
And yet he felt a certain wistful sadness about it.
He sighed and sat down on the sofa facing the coals of the fire. It
was too warm for the flames to need stoking. They were only there for
effect, offering mere ruddy light and little heat.
A blonde woman was seated on the chair nearby, her eyes glinting
in the light of the coals.
“Petra would be very proud of you,” she said.
James nodded, knowing it was true. “She would think the post was
beneath me, probably. She would say I should be Minister of Magic, not
headmaster.”
“I don’t think so,” the blonde woman said, smiling sadly. “Political
posts are for crusaders or puppets. Headmasters are the ones who really

change the future. They provide the subtle pebbles of destiny that shift the
rivers of the future. She would be glad you were here. She would applaud
you.”
James glanced aside, and smiled ruefully. “How are you, Izzy?”
Izzy shrugged. She was older than a young woman now. In her
prime, if such a person could be said to have a prime. James secretly
suspected that she might never grow a year older as long as she lived. Not
unless she desired it, and allowed it. “I’m well. I can’t not be. I expect you
know that.”
“Wellbeing is more than safety and happiness,” James said with a
sigh, turning back to the fire.
“I know,” Izzy answered, a smile in her voice.
They sat in comfortable silence for a minute. Izzy was a like a sister
to James, although a sister that he had never fought with, or tattled on, or
been embarrassed by in front of his friends. She was all the warmth and
knowing of a beloved sibling, with none of the jealousy or spite.
Of course, she was also completely unlike any other human being.
She was, as Merlin had long ago said, a Guardian. It was less a description,
James had come to discover, than an ancient title. Such beings had
apparently lived long, long ago. Some legends said that they still did,
although now in secret, forever hidden, watching and guiding from the
backstage of reality. James wondered sometimes if that was where Izzy
went when she withdrew from her childhood home with the Potters, when
she seemed to step right out of the world of regular people, both magical or
Muggle.
He suspected he would never know the truth about that. Izzy had
never explained, and he had never had the audacity to ask.
“I saw Deirdre Finnegan the other day,” she finally said, speaking as
if to the dying embers. “She said to tell you hello.”
James shook his head ruefully. “Don’t start.”
“She’s very beautiful,” Izzy shrugged. “Much more fetching now
than she was even back when you two were in school. She intends to apply
for the Transfiguration position. She’s very good. I think she would make
a wonderful addition.”
“I know what you’re getting at,” James said, his smile softening
only a little. “It’s not any additions to Hogwarts staff that you’re dreaming
up. It’s very sweet. But stop.”

“Tabitha Corsica is between husbands at the moment,” Izzy
commented with a sly smile. “What with her working for the Department
of Ambassadorial Relations, she’d be traveling so much that you’d rarely
see each other anyway.”
James rolled his eyes. “You’re very amusing.”
Izzy’s smile softened. “And then there’s always Lucy. She’s never
really gotten over you, no matter what she says.”
“Enough,” James sighed. “Lucy and I… look, it’s complicated.
And not just because we’re technically family. I love her, of course. And
we did see each other for awhile.”
“On several occasions, I recall.”
James glanced aside at her. “Our story isn’t over yet, I suppose.
But for now, it’s at a bit of a stalemate. She’s busy studying for her
doctorate in advanced technomancy at Alma Aleron. I’m here, getting
ready to start a new career…”
Izzy met his eyes knowingly. “A bachelor headmaster isn’t a
requirement, you know.”
“I know,” James answered with a sigh. “It’s not that. Really. I
just…” He shook his head faintly. “It’s not that I’m not looking. Or that
I’m disinterested. I go out sometimes. And who knows: maybe someday
someone will come along. Maybe Lucy. Maybe even Deirdre. Definitely
not Tabitha Corsica. But, for now… I’m happy. My life is…
uncomplicated. I’m content.”
Izzy nodded, seemed to consider this thoughtfully for a minute.
Then she looked at him and said, “If anyone else said that, I think they’d be
lying, both to me and themselves. But in your case, James… I believe
you.”
James smiled at her, happy to be known.
They chatted a little longer. Izzy asked about Albus and Lily, Mum
and Dad. And then, as the clock struck midnight, she stood up. James
stood as well. He walked her to the portrait hole, and she gave him a hug.
It was affectionate, lingering, and over too soon. And yet, as always, James
felt comforted by the nonverbal promise of many more hugs to come, in a
future that was, if unpredictable, at least steady.
Izzy would see to that.
She left via the portrait hole. James knew that once the painting
swung shut, Izzy would likely vanish from the school altogether. She didn’t

have to use doors. But leaving via them, at least in other people’s presence,
was a kindness and a courtesy.
He considered going upstairs to the boys’ dormitory and finding an
old student bed to sleep in. It was a ridiculous thought, of course. It made
him smile. His trunk was already stowed in the formal guest quarters
adjacent to the headmaster’s suite, just waiting for him to move across the
hall tomorrow and start his new life.
He would not look back. Not when there was so very much to look
forward to.
Thus, he decided to go to the guest quarters after all. He was
confident that he would sleep exceptionally well, and awaken ready for
whatever new adventures awaited him, this time from the other side of that
ancient, foreboding headmaster’s desk, with the Sorting Hat snoozing on its
shelf behind him.
Perhaps he would even get a phoenix.
On that note, he climbed through the portrait hole, leaving the
portrait of the Fat Lady, snoring daintily in her frame, to swing gently shut
behind him.
In the empty darkness of the Gryffindor common room, a shadow
moved. It had been there the whole time, only perfectly still, knowing that
stillness made it invisible. That was simply one of the rules. The shadow
had watched Izzy and James speak, listened to them with affection, and a
little amusement, and a touch of old, deep sadness.
The shadow was the shape of a young woman. She had long dark
hair, somewhat windswept, but rakishly so. She wore a pale blue hooded
jumper over a calico dress and work boots. She had deep eyes the peculiar
blue of moonlight on a frozen pond.
She was considering what name she might choose for herself. All
the ghosts had special names, after all. There was the Bloody Baron, and
the Grey Lady, and even Cedric’s silly Spectre of Silence.
She thought she might call herself the Crimson Thread. It wasn’t a
phrase that had any meaning in this world anymore. That story had never
officially happened. Nor, technically speaking, was her thread crimson
anymore. Now it was the pale, pervasive blue of her eyes. But still. It had
a nice ring to it. People would probably respond well to it.
It was memorable.
The new Gryffindor house ghost considered these things for a long

moment, and then drifted back into the shadows, planning, musing,
considering…
She had plenty of time to decide. Her schedule was empty. Her
tasks were done.
Her conscience was clear.

THE END

Except possibly not.
James was well over a year into his tenure as Headmaster when an
idea came into his head. It was almost as strong as the ideas that had
preceded his feverish fugue during the days of the triple-six enigma, except
that this one, he knew, was no alternate dimensional intrusion.
For one thing, he really had spent a holiday with Millie Vandergriff,
back during his seventh year of schooling. He remembered very clearly
sitting at a formal Christmas table with her grandmother, the countess
Eunice Vandergriff, who was, quite remarkably, still alive and, if only
metaphorically, kicking. In truth, James didn’t think the countess had
deigned to do anything so undignified as kicking even when she had been a
young woman, sometime during the beginning of the previous century.
He remembered, very clearly, their discussion about the significance
of the House of Black.
It is more than a landholding and title, she had told him. More than
a mere name.
The colour Black meant something. It protected and regulated some
elemental human force, just as the Greene Barony had once been charge of
the force of jealousy and ambition, and the Marquess of Rose had
moderated the fickle tides of love.
But the Countess had refused to tell him what the House of Black
was the charge of. Or perhaps she had been unable to tell him.
Because perhaps she did not herself know, or remember.
The idea had come back to him many times over the years as a mere
curiosity. Something he might one day choose to investigate on a whim,
should he have the time and the inclination.
Until the dreams began in earnest.
Except that they weren’t dreams, exactly, as much as they were
simply an ill-defined sense of urgency, like the echo of a loved one’s voice,
calling out in need, or some important but forgotten appointment, nagging
at memory. Even during daylight hours, in his office or seated at the head
table at meals, James would be overcome with a shock of directionless

panic, as if he himself was a student again, a nervous first year waking up
and realizing that class had already started, the exam was about to begin,
and he had barely enough time to struggle into his robes and dash, hair
mussed and shoes untied, as fast as he could to the classroom door before it
shut him out, too late, doomed to fail.
He had no idea what was behind it all. He only knew that it had
something to do with Countess Vandergriff’s odd suggestions about the
dusty title he would one day inherit, and the significance of the name Black,
and the responsibility of some ancient, fundamental stewardship.
The answer came from the least of all expected sources.
“You should go to Grimmauld Place,” one of the headmaster
portraits said with a sniff.
James at first didn’t know which one had spoken. He had been
sitting in his office that late fall evening staring at a book, reading the same
line over and over, his mind completely distracted and driven by phantom
urgency, making both concentration and sleep impossible.
Somewhat irritated, he glanced over the portraits and asked, “Who
said that?”
“I did,” a portrait in a high, cobwebbed corner answered in a nasal
drawl. James squinted into the dimness above. It was the portrait of
Phineas Nigellus Black. He didn’t think he’d ever actually heard that
particular portrait speak, although he did know that the same portrait of the
dodgy old headmaster sometimes occupied an empty frame back at the
Black estate.
James considered the portrait. “Why should I go to Grimmauld
Place?”
“Because you are clearly agitated to the point of near complete
uselessness here. I recognize the signs. Go and spare us your frustrated
sighs.”
“But why there, exactly?” James pressed suspiciously.
But Phineas Nigellus merely crossed his arms and leaned back, his
face dropping into flinty-eyed shadow.
“You’ll get no more answers from him, methinks,” the portrait of
Dumbledore suggested, peering up and out of his frame. “But I expect his
counsel, limited though it is, may prove fruitful to your current state.”
“Do you know anything about this?” James asked, lowering his eyes
to the nearer portrait.

Dumbledore shrugged enigmatically. “I only know that we are all
obliged to assist the sitting headmaster in whatever way we can, via our
own unique perspectives. Phineas Nigellus’ perspective might arguably be
the most unique of all.”
From the cobwebbed shadows, Phineas Nigellus harrumphed
haughtily.
The portrait of Severus Snape feigned sleep, unconvincingly.
“Go,” a woman’s portrait sighed, speaking in a high Scottish
brogue. “I for one can’t bear to watch you sigh and squint at the same page
in that dratted book for one more minute.”
James nodded. Even if the old headmasters (and headmistress) had
no clue what they were talking about, a short trip might well clear his head.
And he hadn’t been to Grimmauld Place in years.
He left that very night.
Even as headmaster, there was no apparating out of Hogwarts castle,
apart from examination times, when, as he well knew, the restriction was
temporarily lifted. Thus, he donned his cloak and his new black peaked hat
and left the office briskly, leaving the door to creak shut on its own behind
him.
The halls were nearly empty, despite the lack of any Argus Filch or
Mrs. Norris to strike terror into the hearts of wayward students across the
campus. Mrs. Norris the cat had died nearly fifteen years earlier, at the
tender age of forty-nine—ancient even for a Kneazle. Filch had outlived
her unhappily until only three years previous. James still remembered
Hagrid’s long eulogy at Filch’s funeral. The event had packed the country
church outside Hogsmeade, much to James’ surprise. He’d wondered at the
time how many of those attending were former students who half expected
the irascible old caretaker to climb back out of his casket, possessed of
sheer stubborn ill-temper, and amble back to the school, zombie-fashion, to
continue his cantankerous duties from the afterlife.
That didn’t happen. But the sight of Hagrid crying openly during
the eulogy, blowing his nose noisily while a huge framed portrait of Filch’s
scowling visage looked on, rolling its eyes in disgust, was perhaps an even
odder sight.
Now, the caretaker’s post was occupied by young Edgar
Edgecombe, and never a more fitting replacement could there be.
Edgecombe himself seemed to have long forgotten his spite toward James

as a student. Now, the stout young man was the very picture of sniveling
respect and deference, simpering to the staff out of one side of his mouth
while lashing venomously at students from the other.
James knew he should keep a fairly tight rein on the nasty little
man. But he also knew from experience that nasty little men tended to be
rather useful when it came to maintaining a sense of order, so long as their
bite was not permitted to exceed their bark.
James left the castle via the old rotunda entrance and met a hard,
cool breeze from the distant Forest. The lights were lit in Hagrid’s hut.
James was tempted to go knock, to share a late-night toddy with the
beloved old professor and groundskeeper.
But he did not. Now that his journey was underway, he felt a slowly
growing inertia behind him, pressing him forward, driving his strides
through the hissing grass. The moon was a gigantic bone-coloured eye over
the lake, presiding over its rippling reflection.
James entered a Forest trail, walked a quarter of the way toward
Hogsmeade, and then apparated with a decisive crack.
The world snapped back into place around him in mid-stride. He
was in a cramped Islington street, crowded with parked cars, blowing trash
and dead leaves. He slowed and looked up, turning to his right.
Number twelve Grimmauld Place wasn’t visible, of course.
Numbers thirteen and eleven pressed close together, now so distractingly
old and decrepit that no one even blinked at the apparent mistake in
numbering. The streetlamp nearest was broken, casting a pall of shadows
over James where he stood. Traffic could be heard beyond the rooftops, but
nothing moved on the street in either direction.
James produced a key and summoned the entrance to number
twelve, causing the flats on either side to rumble aside, like drunken patrons
making room at a bar.
No gaslights worked inside the old manor. Once inside, James lit
his wand and startled when its glow shone on an exquisitely ugly, staring
face, bare feet away.
“Good evening, Master,” a deep bullfrog voice grumbled.
“Kreacher,” James gasped, recovering. “How did you know I would
be coming?”
“Kreacher’s first responsibility is to attend his master’s house with
unfailing vigilance,” the ancient house elf said with the tiniest hint of

indignation.
James rolled his eyes. “The empty portrait of Phineas Nigellus told
you.”
Kreacher scowled and narrowed his eyes. “That as well, Master.”
James sighed and took off his hat, hanging it on a cobwebbed rack
near the door. “Did he tell you why?”
“He suggested you might wish to view the Vault, Master.”
James blinked down at the knobbly old elf. Kreacher’s innate brand
of ugly had blossomed over the last few decades, turning him into a truly
spectacular specimen of grotesqueness. His nose and ear hair alone could
well have been used to paint a rusty cauldron. James lifted his wand a little
higher, distancing it from Kreacher’s attentive glower. “I didn’t know that
Grimmauld Place had a Vault,” he said.
“Precious few do, Master,” Kreacher nodded slowly. Then, as silent
as a moth’s wing, he turned and padded away, apparently leading James
further into the dark house.
James followed, his own footsteps creaking the floorboards, the
breath of his passage drifting in layers of cobwebs.
James shivered. “When’s the last time this place was cleaned?”
“Kreacher cleans Master’s house twice per week,” Kreacher
rumbled with sepulchral patience. “Top to bottom, stem to stern.”
James looked aside into the parlor as they passed. Dust lay in a
thick film over every surface, clouding the tarnished mirror over the hearth,
weighing down the closed velvet drapes. Clearly, Kreacher’s concept of
cleaning was a unique and interesting entity unto itself.
Together, the two wended their way through the dark kitchen and
then down the narrow stairs into the cellar. There, no light shone at all apart
from James’ illuminated wand. Shadows loomed behind the old collection
of mismatched furniture. The tiny wrought iron stove was as dark and cold
as a grave.
Kreacher stopped next to the stove. Without turning back, he said,
“Master’s key, sir.”
James looked at the elf’s knobby back and hunched shoulders. “I…
don’t have any key.”
“The Vault can’t be opened without Master’s key, sir.”
James patted his pockets, half expecting to find a mysterious key in
his robes. He found nothing but a few spare Knuts and an old train ticket.

He shook his head and exhaled in frustration. “I don’t have any key,” he
said again. “You’re just going to have to open it yourself.”
Slowly, ponderously, Kreacher turned his warty head and looked
back at James with one huge, rheumy eye. He measured him silently,
inscrutably. “No one can open the Vault without the key, Master. Not
Kreacher. Not you. Not anyone in this wide world, or any others.”
The sense of urgency descended over James again. Impatience
came with it. Where would he find any mysterious key? Why had Phineas
Nigellus sent him without telling him what he needed? He opened his
mouth to demand an answer from Kreacher—an answer he knew he would
probably never get—when a push of dusty air sighed down the stairway
behind him. It was accompanied by a distant thunk, and then the
unmistakable sound of hurrying footsteps, growing swiftly closer.
James turned on the spot and raised his wand warily, pointing it
toward the stairs both for light and warning, as a figure began to clump
down them.
The figure stopped on the second to last step, its own wand lit and
held at head-height.
“Oh,” the figure said, “Hi, son.”
James slumped with relief and lowered his wand. “Dad! What are
you doing here?”
Harry Potter tromped down the remaining step and moved to join
his son. They were of equal height now, even if the elder Potter was still
rather broader through the shoulders. His glasses reflected their lit wands
brightly, but his smile was easy and comfortable, despite the fine lines that
belied his age.
“It’s time, apparently,” he answered with a shrug. “I knew this day
would come. Just didn’t think it would come quite this soon. The duty
shall be yours now, such as it is.”
“What duty?” James asked, unable to keep the impatience out of his
voice. “I feel like a Howler’s been going off in my own head for days, only
it’s just screaming me onward, not using any actual words. What’s this all
about?”
Harry put a hand on his son’s shoulder and gave a commiserating
squeeze. “I understand your frustration. Just think how it was for me!
Sirius was dead by the time I got the calling. He wasn’t here to do for me
what I’m about to do for you. I had to find the key all by myself. About

drove me mad. And Kreacher here was about as useful as a candyfloss
broomstick.”
Kreacher turned around fully and bore this comment with something
approaching dark relish, scowling hard enough to curdle milk.
“What… key?” James asked with barely contained impatience.
Harry fished in the pocket of his robe and pulled out a simple key.
It was made of some black metal, perhaps six inches long, ornately crafted
with a ringed head, a long shaft, and complicated geometric teeth extending
beneath. It was a handsome object, diminished only slightly by the layers
of ancient tarnish and patches of rust that scuffed and darkened its surface.
“I found it in an iron lockbox beneath the bricks of the master
hearth,” Harry said, cocking his head at his son. “It was about the
hundredth place I looked. If it wasn’t for a handwritten clue I found in one
of Sirius’ old record sleeves, I would likely be tearing this place apart to
this very day. Once the calling comes, there’s no denying it. I expect you
know that yourself, now.”
James took the key from his father, held it in his palm. Despite its
tarnish and rust, its weight implied a very fine construction, heavy and
solid. He looked back up at his father, his eyes narrowed.
“Years ago, when I asked you about this, you acted like you didn’t
know anything.”
“And you will, too, should anyone ask you,” Harry replied soberly.
“Although they won’t. Not even Merlinus knows this secret, though he
may have his suspicions. Now go ahead.” He nodded toward the patiently
waiting Kreacher.
James turned to the elf and, somewhat reluctantly, held out the key.
Carefully, almost reverently, Kreacher put out his huge hand, open,
allowing James to place the key gently onto his palm. Kreacher closed his
fingers over it slowly and turned away again.
“Apparently,” Harry said softly as Kreacher stepped toward the
blank brick wall beyond the stove, “before this room was a lounge or a
servant’s kitchen, back when it was first purchased by Slade Willibrord
Black, it was outfitted as the antechamber to an ultra secret hidden chamber,
long since forgotten. Pay attention to how Kreacher accesses it. He may
not always be here to assist you.”
James watched as the old elf raised the key and held it
approximately sixteen inches from the brick wall. He shifted it minutely, as

if searching for some hidden quadrant of empty space. And then, strangely,
metal clinked on metal. Decisively, Kreacher pushed the key forward,
slotting it as if into an invisible keyhole. It chinked home, and the old elf
gave the key a single, clockwise turn.
Purple light bloomed out from the key, fizzing as it went, first
revealing a round metal panel and the hidden keyhole. The panel was as
black as onyx, engraved with ornate scrollwork in the shape of an old
English letter B. The sizzle of purple light expanded still, spreading side to
side, up and down, revealing a complicated circular door made of the same
black metal, studded with bolts and rivets, festooned with crawling
scrollwork that picked out every feature, embraced every detail. When it
fully resolved, the door stood like a round layer cake turned onto its side,
ten feet tall, comprised entirely of black iron plates, ringed and bolted
together, as heavy as a cathedral and twice as imposing. The key still jutted
from the centre, slotted into its key-plate.
Kreacher bowed his head and stepped backwards, retreating into a
far corner.
James was dumbfounded. He had been in the cellar room dozens,
probably hundreds of times. Never had he suspected that it had any secret
significance.
Tearing his eyes away from the huge Vault door, he asked his father,
“Have you been in there?”
Harry gave a rather equivocating nod. “A few times. Three, in
fact. Once to do the duty of our office. Twice… simply to see for myself,
as you will now.”
James looked at his father. Harry met his eyes and gestured with his
hand. An invitation.
James stepped toward the door. On the right side was mounted a
thick metal handle, curved to conform to the door’s shape. James reached
for it tentatively, touched it. He expected the black iron to be cold, but it
was not. It was pleasantly warm, like the shade on a summer’s day. The
metal thrummed a little, as if connected to some secret, far distant power
source. The vibration of it carried up to his elbow. He swallowed
nervously, and then gave the door a tentative tug.
The door unlatched, its bolts already unlocked by the key. It swung
silently, slow and heavy on well-oiled hinges. The initial tug was all it
took. Inertia swung the door in an irresistible ponderous arc, revealing a

sort of shadowy cell beyond. The walls, floor, and ceiling of the space were
seamless stone, as if the room was hewn from one gigantic, perfectly solid
block of granite. The cell seemed perfectly empty and dark except for a
single object in the centre of the floor. It was a sort of plinth or pedestal,
constructed of the same ornately engraved black iron as the door, anchored
to the floor with fist-sized bolts. Its base was wide and curled into baroque
twists. Its body tapered upward like a tree trunk, flaring delicately toward a
flat, pedestal surface. A single, small object sat there, in a pool of
mysterious golden light.
James stepped forward, up into the space. It was cool inside, cavelike, but not dank. The air was fresh somehow, mysteriously scented with
running water and night-blooming flowers.
Upon the pedestal, a tiny book sat, open on its leather cover, its
blank pages turned up to the light, as if waiting to be filled.
Harry moved close behind his son, unable not to look down at the
strange little book and its blank, expectant pages.
“Merlin had a book like that,” James breathed, both awed and
confused. “I saw him with it years ago. He was reading it on Hagrid’s
ship. And on the morning after the Triple-Six enigma.”
“Merlin’s is a copy of a copy of a copy,” Harry said, his voice quiet
and somber. The space seemed to inspire solemnity, not out of obligation,
but out of a sort of innate, secretly giddy respect. James suddenly felt that
he had to contain his emotions not because they were inappropriate, but
because, if he gave them voice, he might laugh out loud with inexplicable
joy, or break down into inconsolable tears, or draw his wand in search of a
villain to best or a monster to slay. Here, in the presence of the Book,
emotions were magnified into their purest, most visceral, gut-wrenching,
and intoxicating selves.
Harry went on, keeping his voice low and steady, “This is the Book
that all other books strive to be. It took me a little while to understand it
myself. And even now, I grasp it only barely. Like a child grasps quantum
technomancy.”
James tore his eyes from the creamy, golden, waiting pages, turned
to his father, wanting to understand. Needing to understand.
Harry met his son’s eyes. “Every magical title is a custody of the
elements of humanity. And each one is defined by their colour. You have
observed this yourself. Greene is for ambition. Rose is for love. Blue is

for intellect. But Black… that one is different from them all.”
James remembered. “Because Black is where all the other colours
come together. It’s every hue in one.”
Harry smiled. “That’s as true as our minds can understand. Black is
the junction of all the other facets of humanity, where they combine and
blend together. Black is the alchemy of love and hate, cowardice and
courage, jealousy and intellect, revenge and redemption. It orders all the
other colours and makes them into something cohesive, something larger
and greater than the mere sum of their individual parts.
The Black
guardianship, James, is the element of Story.”
James blinked at his father, unsure if he had heard him properly.
Harry nodded again. “We think stories are mere letters on paper.
Just words spoken into the air. But in a multi-universe of infinite
possibilities, there is technically no such thing as fiction. Somewhere down
the line of the endless dimensions, every beautiful story is true. Our very
lives may be some other universe’s favorite tales.”
James met his father’s smile with a tentative one of his own. “So…
this Book?”
Harry looked down at it again, his eyes clearing. “It’s the ultimate
true story. Yours, mine, everyone’s, in every version of our world, where
they all tie together into the greatest plotline of them all. It’s not like the
Loom in the Vault of Destinies. That is a mere recording of what happens.
This Book is the future story that is yet to come, and the promise that it will
all be worth it.”
James looked back down at the simple little Book. His intellectual
mind found the idea preposterous on the very face of it. How could all
good stories be true? How could this little book contain them all? But his
deeper mind, the mind that had once called upon his love’s hidden powers
to save her life—to save it so that she could eventually find redemption for
her own soul—understood completely.
“The only real fictions,” he said, trying out the idea, “are the
ugliness, the pointless tragedies, the losses without resolutions. They are
lies written into the world by hate. But hate is a mere vandal, sadness only
graffiti on the architecture of glory. Someday, if we are careful with our
charge, hate’s work will be erased. All of those unfinished details and loose
threads and unsatisfying heartbreaks will find their resolution. It will all be
tied up in a perfect conclusion that redeems everything, erases all the losses,

and compounds all the joys.”
Harry nodded. “Our charge is simply to assure that the Book
remains open. To never assume that the last word has been written on a
tragic chapter. To let the stories always go on, all drawing slowly to the
universal and perfect conclusion that no single one of us can quite imagine.
As long as the Book remains open… the storybook ending hasn’t yet been
written.”
James wanted to touch the Book. He peered at it closely and
realized that it wasn’t, in fact, completely empty after all. There were
words there, forming and flowing, flitting like angel wings on the paper,
almost but not quite invisible. He wanted to lean close, to try to read, but
didn’t dare.
“This is a duty greater than either of us.”
“And yet,” Harry said, a little ruefully, “Men much smaller than you
have borne it, and with hearts of pettiness and pride. For the stewardship of
story does come with its benefit. There is just a bit more serendipity, a hint
more luck, a touch of extra coincidental happenstance that somehow
manages to always work in our favour, at least in the long run. I have
known it in my life, even before learning of the Book. I expect you have as
well.”
James nodded. With a wistful sigh, his eyes still on the not-quiteempty pages, he asked, “Tell me about the other two times you came into
the Vault.”
Harry grew sober. “When Granddad died. I was very sad. I needed
to see that there was still hope to be had. Hope for a future where even
death might be obsolete.”
James looked back at his father now. “And the third time?”
Harry met his son’s gaze, his expression serious. “The Book called
to me. Just as it called to you tonight, and for me to join you. It happened
late during your seventh year of schooling. It was a dark time, if you
recall. People were afraid, tormented by visions of doom. And no one was
certain that they were mere visions. Many believed that the end was upon
us. It was the night of the Triple-Six enigma when the story summoned
me. And when I got here, when I opened the Vault, the Book was closed.”
James nearly gasped at the idea. He whispered, “But how is that
possible?”
Harry shook his head gravely. “I don’t know how it happened, or

why. No one had been inside the Vault. Perhaps the story closed on its
own, simply because hope was so thin in the world. Perhaps some dark and
inexplicable force had been involved, shutting the Book’s pages via its own
evil fascinations. But the Book called to me, it’s custodian. And when I
arrived, I found that it wasn’t completely closed.” He smiled faintly.
“There was a bookmark.”
He produced something else from the same pocket that had held the
key. He offered it to James, delicately.
It was a chocolate frog card, beaten and dog-eared, its cardstock
softened with age to the point of flimsiness. The portrait space on the front
of the card was empty, but the banner beneath was still legible, if barely.
James read it.
Then he blinked and read it again.
He shook his head and looked helplessly at his father. “That’s… my
name,” he said wonderingly, a little worriedly. “‘James Sirius Potter’.” He
turned it over and saw a block of text, white on dark blue. The first few
lines read:
JAMES SIRIUS POTTER
Headmaster,
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft & Wizardry,
Order of Merlin First Class, Double Awarded.
Son of the legend, and legend in his own right.
Famed for his pursuit and dispatch of the
villainous and dastardly cabal know as…

Harry covered the card with his hand, gently taking it back with a
smile.
“The future, apparently,” he said, peering wryly at James over his
glasses. “No one should know too much of their own. I don’t know how
this came to be in the Story, keeping its place. But clearly, like the Book,
your own story is not yet finished. Never finished. And tonight, a new
chapter begins. The key is now your responsibility, as is the Vault and its
Book.”
James nodded, although his mind was spinning, reeling. What could
the chocolate frog card possibly mean? How could it have gotten into the
Book, saving the proper place, from whatever distant, mysterious future
was its origin?

He followed his father back out into the much more prosaic
darkness of the cellar.
James closed the Vault door carefully. It was his duty now. He
twisted the key back, relocking the cell and its strange talisman of hope.
With a shimmer of purple, the door vanished away again. James tugged the
key out of the invisible keyhole.
He pocketed it, and patted the pocket, content to feel the small,
powerful weight therein.
From that day forward, he kept the key with him at all times.
His father kept the chocolate frog card.
And in the many years that followed, when James was sad (and he
did have occasions to be sad) he thought of the Vault. He thought of the
Story. Sometimes, very rarely, he visited it. He performed the duties of his
stewardship.
He reminded himself.
The Author was not yet finished. The sadness was only a chapter in
the larger plotline. Heartbreak and loss were the only fictions. They would
not last forever.
The happy ending was not yet written.
But someday… someday… it would be.

