The digital heart
of the Wizarding World

www.pottermore.com

CONTENTS
CHAPTER ONE: THE JOURNEY TO HOGWARTS
King’s Cross Station
Platform Nine and Three-Quarters
The Hogwarts Express
CHAPTER TWO: THE SORTING
The Sorting Hat
Hatstall
CHAPTER THREE: THE CASTLE AND GROUNDS
Hufflepuff Common Room
The Marauder’s Map
The Great Lake
CHAPTER FOUR: LESSONS AT HOGWARTS
Hogwarts School Subjects
Time-Turner
CHAPTER FIVE: CASTLE RESIDENTS
Hogwarts Ghosts
Ghosts
The Ballad of Nearly Headless Nick
Hogwarts Portraits

Sir Cadogan
CHAPTER SIX: SECRETS OF THE CASTLE
Mirror of Erised
Pensieve
The Philosopher’s Stone
The Sword of Gryffindor
The Chamber of Secrets

FROM THE POTTERMORE EDITOR:

We know quite a lot about Hogwarts. It’s a school for witches and
wizards, who are invited to attend by an owl-delivered letter. It
has a hundred and forty-two staircases, which move as though
they have minds of their own. It was founded by Godric
Gryffindor, Rowena Ravenclaw, Helga Hufflepuff and Salazar
Slytherin, after whom the school’s houses were named.
There’s even a secret passageway under a one-eyed witch statue
that allows a fairly thin person to escape into the cellar of
Honeydukes. But if Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian
Dumbledore says even he doesn’t know all of Hogwarts’ secrets,
well, neither do we.
There’s only one person who knows everything about Hogwarts.
In this collection of writing, J.K. Rowling divulges hidden secrets
and strange lore from Britain’s school for witchcraft and
wizardry.

‌

We begin just as any witch or wizard on his or her way to
Hogwarts would – at London’s King’s Cross. It’s a bustling,
cavernous train station filled with busy commuters – so busy
that they don’t notice people laden with trunks, owls, cats and
robes run at a ticket barrier and disappear.

KING’S CROSS STATION
BY J.K. ROWLING
When Ottaline Gambol commandeered a Muggle train to serve as
the new mode of transport for Hogwarts students, she also had
constructed a small station in the wizarding village of Hogsmeade: a
necessary adjunct to the train. The Ministry of Magic felt strongly,
however, that to construct an additional wizarding station in the
middle of London would stretch even the Muggles’ notorious
determination not to notice magic when it was exploding in front
of their faces.
It was Evangeline Orpington, Minister from 1849–1855, who
hit upon the solution of adding a concealed platform at the newly
(Muggle) built King’s Cross station, which would be accessible only
to witches and wizards. On the whole, this has worked well,
although there have been minor problems over the ensuing years,
such as witches and wizards who have dropped suitcases full of
biting spellbooks or newt spleens all over the polished station floor,
or else disappeared through the solid barrier a little too loudly.
There are usually a number of plain-clothed Ministry of Magic
employees on hand to deal with any inconvenient Muggle
memories that may need altering at the start and end of each
Hogwarts term.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
King’s Cross, which is one of London’s main railway stations, has a
very personal significance for me, because my parents met on a
train to Scotland which departed from King’s Cross station. For this
reason, and because it has such an evocative and symbolic name,
and because it is actually the right station to leave from if you were
heading to Caledonia, I never knew the slightest indecision about
the location of the portal that would take Harry to Hogwarts, or the
means of transport that would take him there.
It is said (though where the story originated I could not tell
you; it is suspiciously vague) that King’s Cross Station was built
either on the site of Boudicca’s last battle (Boudicca was an ancient
British queen who led a rebellion against the Romans) or on the site
of her tomb. Legend has it that her grave is situated somewhere in
the region of platforms eight to ten. I did not know this when I gave
the wizards’ platform its number. King’s Cross station takes its
name from a now-demolished monument to King George IV.
There is a real trolley stuck halfway out of a wall in King’s
Cross now, and it makes me beam proudly every time I pass...

There is no doubt that a train from King’s Cross is the most
reliable way to get a young witch or wizard to Hogwarts (flying
cars are strongly discouraged). But why platform nine and threequarters? And what other hidden platforms might be tucked
away behind those walls?

PLATFORM NINE
AND THREE-QUARTERS
J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
In choosing the number of the concealed platform that would take
young witches and wizards to boarding school, I decided that it
would have to be a number between those of the Muggle platforms
– therefore, it was clearly a fraction. This raised the interesting
question of how many other fractional platforms lay between the
whole-numbered platforms at King’s Cross, and I concluded that
there were probably quite a few. Although these are never
mentioned in the book, I like to think that it is possible to take a
version of the Orient Express off to wizard-only villages in
continental Europe (try platform seven and a half), and that other
platforms may be opened on an as-required-basis, for instance for
large, one-off events such as Celestina Warbeck concerts (see your
ticket for details).
The number nine and three-quarters presented itself without
much conscious thought, and I liked it so much that I took it at
once. It is the ‘three-quarters’ that makes it, of course.

Next, it’s only logical to jump onto the Hogwarts Express, which
fills with new and returning students of witchcraft and wizardry
each year and drops them off at school.

THE HOGWARTS EXPRESS
BY J.K. ROWLING
As we know from early historical accounts, and from the evidence
of early woodcuts and engravings, Hogwarts students used to arrive
at school in any manner that caught their fancy. Some rode
broomsticks (a difficult feat when carrying trunks and pets); others
commandeered enchanted carts and, later, carriages; some
attempted to Apparate (often with disastrous effects, as the castle
and grounds have always been protected with Anti-Apparition
Charms); others rode a variety of magical creatures.
(Indeed, it is believed that the Thestrals currently living in the
Forbidden Forest, and trained to pull the school carriages from
Hogsmeade Station, are descendants of those ridden by students to
school long ago.)
In spite of the accidents attendant on these various modes of
magical transport, not to mention the annual Muggle sightings of
vast numbers of airborne wizards travelling northwards, it
remained the responsibility of parents to convey their children to
school, right up until the imposition of the International Statute of
Secrecy in 1692. At this point, it became a matter of urgency to find
some more discreet method of transporting hundreds of wizarding
children from all over Britain to their secret school in the
Highlands of Scotland.
Portkeys were therefore arranged at collecting points all over
Britain. The logistics caused problems from the start. Up to a third
of students would fail to arrive every year, having missed their time

slot, or been unable to find the unobtrusive enchanted object that
would transport them to their school. There was also the
unfortunate fact that many children were (and are) ‘Portkey-sick’,
and the hospital wing was frequently full to bursting for the first
few days of every year, while susceptible students overcame their
hysterics and nausea.
While admitting that Portkeys were not an ideal solution to the
problem of school transportation, the Ministry of Magic failed to
find an acceptable alternative. A return to the unregulated travel of
the past was impossible, and yet a more secure route into the school
(for instance, permitting a fireplace that might be officially entered
by Floo powder) was strongly resisted by successive Headmasters,
who did not wish the security of the castle to be breached.
A daring and controversial solution to the thorny problem was
finally suggested by Minister for Magic Ottaline Gambol, who was
much intrigued by Muggle inventions and saw the potential in
trains. Where exactly the Hogwarts Express came from has never
been conclusively proven, although it is a fact that there are secret
records at the Ministry of Magic detailing a mass operation
involving one hundred and sixty-seven Memory Charms and the
largest ever mass Concealment Charm performed in Britain. The
morning after these alleged crimes, a gleaming scarlet steam engine
and carriages astounded the villagers of Hogsmeade (who had also
not realised they had a railway station), while several bemused
Muggle railway workers down in Crewe spent the rest of the year
grappling with the uncomfortable feeling that they had mislaid
something important.
The Hogwarts Express underwent several magical
modifications before the Ministry approved it for school use. Many
pure-blood families were outraged at the idea of their children
using Muggle transport, which they claimed was unsafe, insanitary
and demeaning; however, as the Ministry decreed that students
either rode the train or did not attend school, the objections were
swiftly silenced.

‌

First-year Hogwarts students are hustled into the Great Hall for
the wizarding world’s most discerning personality test. As each
young witch and wizard is called forward, an infinitely wise
talking hat is placed on his or her head. We know what the
Sorting Hat does, but how much do we know about how it was
created?

THE SORTING HAT
BY J.K. ROWLING
The famous Hogwarts Sorting Hat gives an account of its own
genesis in a series of songs sung at the beginning of each school
year. Legend has it that the hat once belonged to one of the four
founders, Godric Gryffindor, and that it was jointly enchanted by
all four founders to ensure that students would be sorted into their
eponymous houses, which would be selected according to each
founder’s particular preferences in students.
The Sorting Hat is one of the cleverest enchanted objects most
witches and wizards will ever meet. It literally contains the
intelligence of the four founders, can speak (through a rip near its
brim) and is skilled at Legilimency, which enables it to look into the
wearer’s head and divine his or her capabilities or mood. It can even
respond to the thoughts of the wearer.
The Sorting Hat has another ability, which has rarely been
revealed to anyone at Hogwarts. It is a magical portal, by which
another of Godric Gryffindor’s possessions may be accessed: the
sword of Gryffindor. This sword was enchanted by Godric to
appear whenever a member of his house asks for help while
wearing the Hat. Twice, in the course of the Harry Potter series, the
sword is transported from a temporary owner to aid a Gryffindor
who needs a weapon.
The Sorting Hat is notorious for refusing to admit it has made
a mistake in its sorting of a student. On those occasions when
Slytherins behave altruistically or selflessly, when Ravenclaws flunk

all their exams, when Hufflepuffs prove lazy yet academically gifted
and when Gryffindors exhibit cowardice, the Hat steadfastly backs
its original decision. On balance, however, the Hat has made
remarkably few errors of judgement over the many centuries it has
been at work.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
The Sorting Hat does not appear in my earliest plans for Hogwarts.
I debated several different methods for sorting students (because I
knew from early on that there would be four houses, all with very
different qualities). The first was an elaborate, Heath Robinson-ish
machine that did all kinds of magical things before reaching a
decision, but I did not like it: it felt at once too complicated and too
easy. Next I placed four statues of the four founders in the Entrance
Hall, which came alive and selected students from the throng in
front of them while the school watched. This was better, but still
not quite right. Finally, I wrote a list of the ways in which people
can be chosen: eeny meeny miny mo, short straws, chosen by team
captains, names out of a hat – names out of a talking hat – putting
on a hat – the Sorting Hat.

The Sorting Hat is very wise. But dividing the magical student
population of Hogwarts into four houses is a difficult task.
Sometimes the Sorting Hat gets stumped. It’s rare for the Hat to
really take its time deciding where a student belongs, but there is
a term for when it happens.

‌ ATSTALL
H
BY J.K. ROWLING
An archaic Hogwarts term for any new student whose Sorting takes
longer than five minutes. This is an exceptionally long time for the
Sorting Hat to deliberate, and occurs rarely, perhaps once every
fifty years.
Of Harry Potter’s contemporaries, Hermione Granger and
Neville Longbottom came closest to being Hatstalls. The Sorting
Hat spent nearly four minutes trying to decide whether it should
place Hermione in Ravenclaw or Gryffindor. In Neville’s case, the
Hat was determined to place him in Gryffindor: Neville,
intimidated by that house’s reputation for bravery, requested a
placing in Hufflepuff. Their silent wrangling resulted in triumph for
the Hat.
The only true Hatstalls known personally to Harry Potter were
Minerva McGonagall and Peter Pettigrew. The former caused the
Hat to agonise for five and a half minutes as to whether Minerva
ought to go to Ravenclaw or Gryffindor; the latter was placed in
Gryffindor after a long deliberation between that house and
Slytherin. The Sorting Hat, which is infamously stubborn, still
refuses to accept that its decision in the case of the latter may have
been erroneous, citing the manner in which Pettigrew died as
(dubious) evidence.

‌

Hogwarts is a magical, enchanting and grand labyrinth with
dungeons and towers, a foul-tempered tree, a sprawling lake full
of merpeople, and grounds that are home to magical creatures.
Let’s start with a place Harry Potter never visited himself: the
Hufflepuff Common Room, where the kind at heart rest their
hard-working heads.

HUFFLEPUFF COMMON ROOM
BY J.K. ROWLING
The Hufflepuff common room is entered from the same corridor as
the Hogwarts kitchens. Proceeding past the large still life that forms
the entrance to the latter, a pile of large barrels is to be found
stacked in a shadowy stone recess on the right-hand side of the
corridor. The barrel two from the bottom, middle of the second
row, will open if tapped in the rhythm of ‘Helga Hufflepuff’.* As a
security device to repel non-Hufflepuffs, tapping on the wrong
barrel, or tapping the incorrect number of times, results in one of
the other lids bursting off and drenching the interloper in vinegar.
A sloping, earthy passage inside the barrel travels upwards a
little way until a cosy, round, low-ceilinged room is revealed,
reminiscent of a badger’s set. The room is decorated in the cheerful,
bee-like colours of yellow and black, emphasised by the use of
highly polished, honey-coloured wood for the tables and the round
doors that lead to the boys’ and girls’ dormitories (furnished with
comfortable wooden bedsteads, all covered in patchwork quilts).
A colourful profusion of plants and flowers seem to relish the
atmosphere of the Hufflepuff common room: various cacti stand on
wooden circular shelves (curved to fit the walls), many of them
waving and dancing at passers-by, while copper-bottomed plant
holders dangling amid the ceiling cause tendrils of ferns and ivies to
brush your hair as you pass under them.
A portrait over the wooden mantelpiece (carved all over with
decorative dancing badgers) shows Helga Hufflepuff, one of the

four founders of Hogwarts School, toasting her students with a tiny,
two-handled golden cup. Small, round windows just level with the
ground at the foot of the castle show a pleasant view of rippling
grass and dandelions, and, occasionally, passing feet. These low
windows notwithstanding, the room feels perennially sunny.
* The complexity or otherwise of the entrance to the common rooms might be said to give
a very rough idea of the intellectual reputation of each house: Hufflepuff has an
unchanging portal and requires rhythmic tapping; Slytherin and Gryffindor have
doorways that challenge the would-be entrant about equally, the former having an
almost imperceptible hidden entrance and a varying password, the latter having a
capricious guardian and frequently changing passwords. In keeping with its reputation
as the house of the most agile minds at Hogwarts, the door to the Ravenclaw common
room presents a fresh intellectual or philosophical challenge every time a person knocks
on it.
Nevertheless, it ought not to be concluded from the above that Hufflepuffs are dimwits
or duffers, though they have been cruelly caricatured that way on occasion. Several
outstanding brains have emerged from Hufflepuff House over the centuries; these fine
minds simply happened to be allied to outstanding qualities of patience, a strong work
ethic and constancy, all traditional hallmarks of Hufflepuff House.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
When I first planned the series, I expected Harry to visit all four
house common rooms during his time at Hogwarts. There came a
point when I realised that there was never going to be a valid reason
to enter the Hufflepuff room. Nevertheless, it is quite as real to me
as the other three, and I always knew exactly where those
Hufflepuffs were going when they headed off towards the kitchens
after lessons.

Harry may never have been to the Hufflepuff common room, but
he did end up in possession of a foolproof way of finding his way
around the rest of the castle. Fred and George Weasley gave him
something James Potter and his friends made when they were at
school – the Marauder’s Map. ‘I solemnly swear that I am up to
no good’.

THE MARAUDER’S MAP
BY J.K. ROWLING
Perhaps no students (even including Harry Potter, Ron Weasley,
Hermione Granger and Tom Riddle) have ever explored the castle
and grounds of Hogwarts as thoroughly and illicitly as the four
creators and contributors to the Marauder’s Map: James Potter,
Sirius Black, Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew.
James, Sirius and Peter were not initially impelled to explore
the school grounds by night out of devilment alone (though that
played its part), but by their desire to help their dear friend Remus
Lupin to bear his lycanthropy. Prior to the invention of the
Wolfsbane Potion, Lupin was compelled to undergo an excruciating
transformation every full moon. Once his condition was discovered
by his three best friends, they sought a way to render his
transformations less solitary and painful, which led to them
learning to become (unregistered) Animagi, so that they could keep
him company without harm to themselves. The ability of Sirius
Black, Peter Pettigrew and James Potter to become, respectively, a
dog, a rat and a stag, enabled them to explore the castle grounds by
night undetected. The interior of the castle, meanwhile, was
mapped over time with the help of James Potter’s Invisibility Cloak.
The Marauder’s Map is lasting testimony to the advanced
magical ability of the four friends who included Harry Potter’s
father, godfather and favourite teacher. The map they created
during their time at Hogwarts appears to be a blank piece of
parchment unless activated by the phrase: ‘I solemnly swear that I
’

am up to no good’, a phrase that, in the case of three of the four
makers, should be understood as a joke. The ‘no good’ of which they
wrote never denoted Dark magic, but school rule-breaking; similar
bravado is evinced by their use of their own nicknames on the map
(‘Messrs Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs’).
The magic used in the map’s creation is advanced and
impressive; it includes the Homonculous Charm, enabling the
possessor of the map to track the movements of every person in the
castle, and it was also enchanted to forever repel (as insultingly as
possible) the curiosity of their nemesis, Severus Snape.
Although the precise circumstances surrounding the makers’
loss of their map are not given in the Harry Potter novels, it is easy
to conclude that they eventually over-reached themselves and were
cornered by Argus Filch, probably on a tip-off from Snape, whose
obsession it had become to expose his arch-rival, James Potter, in
wrong-doing. The masterpiece of a map was confiscated in Sirius,
James, Remus and Peter’s final year, and none of them were able to
steal it back from a well-prepared and suspicious Filch. In any case,
their priorities changed in their final months at school, becoming
far more serious and focused on the world beyond Hogwarts, where
Lord Voldemort was successfully rising to power. All four of the
map’s creators would shortly be inducted into the renegade
organisation headed by Albus Dumbledore, the Order of the
Phoenix, and a map of their old school – no matter how ingenious
– would no longer be of use to them except as a piece of nostalgia.
The Marauder’s Map was, however, of immense use to the
young Weasley twins. The story of Fred and George’s acquisition of
the map is told in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. It was a
mark of their high esteem for Harry Potter, and their belief that he
stood in need of assistance with a destiny none of them yet fully
understood, that they later gifted the map to him, unwittingly
passing it on to the child of one of the creators.
The map was subsequently confiscated from Harry Potter by a
Death Eater in disguise at the school, who recognised it as a likely

source of his own discovery.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
The Marauder’s Map subsequently became something of a bane to
its true originator (me), because it allowed Harry a little too much
freedom of information. I never showed Harry taking the map back
from the empty office of (the supposed) Mad-Eye Moody, and I
sometimes regretted that I had not capitalised on this mistake to
leave it there. However, I like the moment when Harry watches
Ginny’s dot moving around the school in Deathly Hallows, so on
balance I am glad I let Harry reclaim his rightful property.

The Marauder’s Map could help students escape to Honeydukes,
locate enemies in the Hogwarts hallways, and insult Severus
Snape, but it probably wouldn’t be much help in the Great Lake.
With its murky depths and magical residents, the Great Lake is
one of the castle’s more mysterious locales; the site of the second
task in the Triwizard Tournament and the haunt of a host of
water-dwelling magical creatures, from Grindylows to the giant
squid.

‌ HE GREAT LAKE
T
BY J.K. ROWLING
The grounds of Hogwarts function partly as a nature reserve for
magical creatures which have difficulty existing in Muggleinhabited areas.
The lake is full of creatures that would make a Muggle
naturalist swoon with delight – if terror did not seize them first.
There are Grindylows (vicious little water demons), merpeople (of a
hardy Scottish strain) and a giant squid, which is semi-domesticated
and permits students to tickle its tentacles on sunny days, when it
basks in the shallows.
Giant squid genuinely exist, though they are most mysterious
creatures. Although their extraordinary bodies have been washed
up all over the world, it was not until 2006 that a live giant squid
was captured on film by Muggles. I strongly suspect them of having
magical powers.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
The lake is the setting for the second task that the Triwizard
competitors must face in Goblet of Fire, which is also my favourite
task. I find it satisfyingly creepy; I like the diversity of the methods
employed by the competitors to breathe underwater, and I enjoyed
plumbing the depths of a part of the grounds that had never been
seen before. In the original draft of Chamber of Secrets, I had Harry
and Ron crash into the lake in Mr Weasley’s Ford Anglia, and meet
the merpeople there for the first time.
At that time I had a vague notion that the lake might lead to
other places, and that the merpeople might play a larger role in the
later books than they did, so I thought that Harry ought to be
introduced to both at this stage. However, the Whomping Willow
provided a more satisfying, less distracting crash, and served a later
purpose in Prisoner of Azkaban, too. The Great Lake (which is really
a Scottish loch, apparently freshwater and landlocked) never did
develop as a portal to other seas or rivers, although the appearance
of the Durmstrang ship from its depths in Goblet of Fire hints at the
fact that if you are travelling by an enchanted craft, you might be
able to take a magical shortcut to other waterways.

‌

It’s time to get down to the real business of Hogwarts: lessons.
You won’t find chemistry and mathematics on the curriculum,
but then you wouldn’t expect to see Potions and Arithmancy on a
Muggle timetable.

HOGWARTS SCHOOL SUBJECTS
BY J.K. ROWLING
All first-years at Hogwarts must take seven subjects:
Transfiguration, Charms, Potions, History of Magic, Defence
Against the Dark Arts, Astronomy and Herbology. Flying lessons
(on broomsticks) are also compulsory.
At the end of their second year at Hogwarts, students are
required to choose a minimum of two more subjects from the
following list: Arithmancy, Muggle Studies, Divination, Study of
Ancient Runes and Care of Magical Creatures.
Very specialised subjects such as Alchemy are sometimes
offered in the final two years, if there is sufficient demand.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
A slightly different list of school subjects appears in my earliest
notes. Herbology is called ‘Herbalism’, Divination is compulsory
from the first year, as are Alchemy and a subject called simply
‘Beasts’, whereas Transfiguration is called
‘Transfiguration/Metamorphosis’.

If, like Hermione, nearly all of these subjects sound essential to
you, then a certain magical object might come in handy. In
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Hermione
managed to double her work load by securing the use of a TimeTurner, a magical device that enables the wearer to travel back
in time. However, using a Time-Turner can have grave
consequences.

‌ IME-TURNER
T
BY J.K. ROWLING
In spite of the many Muggle fantasies around the subject, time
travel is possible in only a limited sense even in the magical world.
While the subject is shrouded in great secrecy – investigations are
ongoing in the Department of Mysteries – it appears that magic can
take you only so far.
According to Professor Saul Croaker, who has spent his entire
career in the Department of Mysteries studying time-magic:
‘As our investigations currently stand, the longest period that
may be relived without the possibility of serious harm to the
traveller or to time itself is around five hours. We have been able to
encase single Hour-Reversal Charms, which are unstable and
benefit from containment, in small, enchanted hour-glasses that
may be worn around a witch or wizard’s neck and revolved
according to the number of hours the user wishes to relive.
‘All attempts to travel back further than a few hours have
resulted in catastrophic harm to the witch or wizard involved. It
was not realised for many years why time travellers over great
distances never survived their journeys. All such experiments have
been abandoned since 1899, when Eloise Mintumble became
trapped, for a period of five days, in the year 1402. Now we
understand that her body had aged five centuries in its return to the
present and, irreparably damaged, she died in St Mungo’s Hospital
for Magical Maladies and Injuries shortly after we managed to
retrieve her. What is more, her five days in the distant past caused

great disturbance to the life paths of all those she met, changing the
course of their lives so dramatically that no fewer than twenty-five
of their descendants vanished in the present, having been “unborn”.
‘Finally, there were alarming signs, during the days following
Madam Mintumble’s recovery, that time itself had been disturbed
by such a serious breach of its laws. Tuesday following her
reappearance lasted two and a half full days, whereas Thursday shot
by in the space of four hours. The Ministry of Magic had a great
deal of trouble in covering this up and since that time, the most
stringent laws and penalties have been placed around those
studying time travel.’
Even the use of the very limited amount of Time-Turners at the
Ministry’s disposal is hedged around with hundreds of laws. While
not as potentially dangerous as skipping five centuries, the re-use of
a single hour can still have dramatic consequences and the Ministry
of Magic seeks the strictest guarantees if it permits the use of these
rare and powerful objects. It would surprise most of the magical
community to know that Time-Turners are generally only used to
solve the most trivial problems of time-management and never for
greater or more important purposes, because, as Saul Croaker tells
us, ‘just as the human mind cannot comprehend time, so it cannot
comprehend the damage that will ensue if we presume to tamper
with its laws.’
The Ministry’s entire stock of Time-Turners was destroyed
during a fight in the Department of Mysteries about three years
after Hermione Granger was granted permission to use one at
Hogwarts.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
I went far too light-heartedly into the subject of time travel in Harry
Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. While I do not regret it (Prisoner of
Azkaban is one of my favourite books in the series), it opened up a
vast number of problems for me, because after all, if wizards could
go back and undo problems, where were my future plots?
I solved the problem to my own satisfaction in stages. Firstly, I
had Dumbledore and Hermione emphasise how dangerous it would
be to be seen in the past, to remind the reader that there might be
unforeseen and dangerous consequences as well as solutions in time
travel. Secondly, I had Hermione give back the only Time-Turner
ever to enter Hogwarts. Thirdly, I smashed all remaining TimeTurners during the battle in the Department of Mysteries,
removing the possibility of reliving even short periods in the future.
This is just one example of the ways in which, when writing
fantasy novels, one must be careful what one invents. For every
benefit, there is usually a drawback.

‌

It isn’t just students and teachers who live at the school.
Hogwarts is home to many others aside from the living – and
these spirits have nothing but time. Among Hogwarts’ permanent
residents are a colourful collection of otherworldly inhabitants.

HOGWARTS GHOSTS
BY J.K. ROWLING
In spite of the unfounded rumours surrounding the Shrieking
Shack, which was never haunted at all, Hogwarts is the most heavily
haunted dwelling place in Britain (and this is against stiff
competition, as there are more reported ghost sightings/sensings
on these damp islands than anywhere else in the world). The castle
is a congenial place for ghosts, because the living inhabitants treat
their dead friends with tolerance and even affection, no matter how
many times they have heard the same old reminiscences.
Each of the four Hogwarts houses has its own ghost. Slytherin
boasts the Bloody Baron, who is covered in silver bloodstains. The
least talkative of the house ghosts is the Grey Lady, who is longhaired and beautiful.
Hufflepuff House is haunted by the Fat Friar, who was executed
because senior churchmen grew suspicious of his ability to cure the
pox merely by poking peasants with a stick, and his ill-advised habit
of pulling rabbits out of the communion cup. Though a genial
character in general, the Fat Friar still resents the fact that he was
never made a cardinal.
Gryffindor house is home to Nearly Headless Nick, who in life
was Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington. Something of a snob, and a
less accomplished wizard than he believed, Sir Nicholas lounged
around the court of Henry VII in life, until his foolish attempt to
beautify a lady-in-waiting by magic caused the unfortunate woman
to sprout tusks. Sir Nicholas was stripped of his wand and

inexpertly executed, leaving his head hanging off by a single flap of
skin and sinew. He retains a feeling of inadequacy with regard to
truly headless ghosts.
Another notable Hogwarts ghost is Moaning Myrtle, who
haunts an unpopular girls’ toilet. Myrtle was a student at Hogwarts
when she died, and she chose to return to school in perpetuity, with
the short-term aim of haunting her arch-rival and bully, Olive
Hornby. As the decades have rolled by, Myrtle has made a name for
herself as the most miserable ghost in school, usually to be found
lurking inside one of the toilets and filling the tiled space with her
moans and howls.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
The inspiration for Moaning Myrtle was the frequent presence of a
crying girl in communal bathrooms, especially at the parties and
discos of my youth. This does not seem to happen in male
bathrooms, so I enjoyed placing Harry and Ron in such
uncomfortable and unfamiliar territory in Harry Potter and the
Chamber of Secrets and Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
The most productive ghost at Hogwarts is, of course, Professor
Binns, the old History of Magic teacher who fell asleep in front of
the staff-room fire one day and simply got up to give his next class,
leaving his body behind. There is some debate as to whether or not
Professor Binns realises he is dead. While his entrance to lessons
through the blackboard is vaguely amusing the first time students
see it, he is not the most stimulating teacher.
The inspiration for Professor Binns was an old professor at my
university, who gave every lecture with his eyes closed, rocking
backwards and forwards slightly on his toes. While he was a
brilliant man, who disgorged an immense amount of valuable
information at every lecture, his disconnect with his students was
total. Professor Binns is only dimly aware of his living students, and
is astonished when they begin asking him questions.
In the very earliest list of ghosts I ever wrote for Hogwarts, I
included Myrtle (initially named ‘Wailing Wanda’), Professor Binns,
the Grey Lady (then called ‘the Whispering Lady’) and the Bloody
Baron. There was also a Black Knight, The Toad (which left
ectoplasm all over its classroom), and a ghost I rather regret not
using: his name was Edmund Grubb, and the notes beside his name
say: Expired in the doorway of the Dining Hall. Sometimes stops
(

people getting in, out of spite. Fat Victorian ghost. (Ate poisonous
berries).

Ghosts are such a normal sight to behold at Hogwarts that it’s
easy to forget you don’t often see them out in the Muggle world.
Of course, there’s a good explanation for that.

‌ HOSTS
G
BY J.K. ROWLING
In the world of Harry Potter, a ghost is the transparent, threedimensional imprint of a deceased witch or wizard, which
continues to exist in the mortal world. Muggles cannot come back
as ghosts, and the wisest witches and wizards choose not to. It is
those with ‘unfinished business’, whether in the form of fear, guilt,
regrets or overt attachment to the material world, who refuse to
move on to the next dimension.
Having chosen a feeble simulacrum of mortal life, ghosts are
limited in what they can experience. No physical pleasure remains
to them, and their knowledge and outlook remains at the level it
had attained during life, so that old resentments (for instance, at
having an incompletely severed neck) continue to rankle after
several centuries. For this reason, ghosts tend to be poor company,
on the whole. They are especially disappointing on the one subject
that fascinates most people: ghosts cannot return a very sensible
answer on what it is like to die, because they have chosen an
impoverished version of life instead.
Ghosts can pass through solid objects without causing damage
to themselves or the material, but create disturbances in water, fire
and air. The temperature drops in the immediate vicinity of a ghost,
an effect intensified if many congregate in the same place. Their
appearance can also turn flames blue. Should part or all of a ghost
pass through a living creature, the latter will experience a freezing
sensation as though they have been plunged into ice-cold water.

Witches and wizards are much more susceptible to what
Muggles call paranormal activity, and will see (and hear) ghosts
plainly, where a Muggle might only feel that a haunted place is cold
or ‘creepy’. Muggles who insist that they see ghosts in perfect focus
are either a) lying or b) wizards showing off – and in flagrant breach
of the International Statute of Secrecy.

The circumstances around Nearly Headless Nick’s botched
beheading were never explained in the Harry Potter series, but
they’re a mystery no longer. You’ll find out exactly what
happened to the aggrieved ghost (straight from Nick himself) in
the following ballad, which was axed from an early draft of
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.

THE BALLAD OF NEARLY HEADLESS NICK
BY J.K. ROWLING
It was a mistake any wizard could make
Who was tired and caught on the hop
One piffling error, and then, to my terror,
I found myself facing the chop.
Alas for the eve when I met Lady Grieve
A-strolling the park in the dusk!
She was of the belief I could straighten her teeth
Next moment she’d sprouted a tusk.
I cried through the night that I’d soon put her right
But the process of justice was lax;
They’d brought out the block, though they’d mislaid the rock
Where they usually sharpened the axe.
Next morning at dawn, with a face most forlorn,
The priest said to try not to cry,
‘You can come just like that, no, you won’t need a hat,’
And I knew that my end must be nigh.
The man in the mask who would have the sad task
Of cleaving my head from my neck,
Said ‘Nick, if you please, will you get to your knees,’
And I turned to a gibbering wreck.

‘This may sting a bit’ said the cack-handed twit
As he swung the axe up in the air,
But oh the blunt blade! No difference it made,
My head was still definitely there.
The axeman he hacked and he whacked and he thwacked,
‘Won’t be too long’, he assured me,
But quick it was not, and the bone-headed clot
Took forty-five goes ’til he floored me.
And so I was dead, but my faithful old head
It never saw fit to desert me,
It still lingers on, that’s the end of my song,
And now, please applaud, or you’ll hurt me.

Nearly Headless Nick and Moaning Myrtle aren’t the only
permanent residents of Hogwarts. The castle walls are lined with
portraits whose subjects can move, speak and interact with
students – including the Fat Lady, who guards the entrance to
Gryffindor Tower, and the many previous headmasters who are
more than ready to offer advice to their successors.

HOGWARTS PORTRAITS
BY J.K. ROWLING
Hogwarts portraits are able to talk and move around from picture
to picture. They behave like their subjects. However, the degree to
which they can interact with the people looking at them depends
not on the skill of the painter, but on the power of the witch or
wizard painted.
When a magical portrait is taken, the witch or wizard artist will
naturally use enchantments to ensure that the painting will be able
to move in the usual way. The portrait will be able to use some of
the subject’s favourite phrases and imitate their general demeanour.
Thus, Sir Cadogan’s portrait is forever challenging people to a fight,
falling off its horse and behaving in a fairly unbalanced way, which
is how the subject appeared to the poor wizard who had to paint
him, while the portrait of the Fat Lady continues to indulge her love
of good food, drink and tip-top security long after her living model
passed away.
However, neither of these portraits would be capable of having
a particularly in-depth discussion about more complex aspects of
their lives: they are literally and metaphorically two-dimensional.
They are only representations of the living subjects as seen by the
artist.
Some magical portraits are capable of considerably more
interaction with the living world. Traditionally, a headmaster or
headmistress is painted before their death. Once the portrait is
completed, the headmaster or headmistress in question keeps it
(

under lock and key, regularly visiting it in its cupboard (if so
desired) to teach it to act and behave exactly like themselves, and
imparting all kinds of useful memories and pieces of knowledge
that may then be shared through the centuries with their successors
in office.
The depth of knowledge and insight contained in some of the
headmasters’ and headmistresses’ portraits is unknown to any but
the incumbents of the office and the few students who have
realised, over the centuries, that the portraits’ apparent sleepiness
when visitors arrive in the office is not necessarily genuine.

Perhaps the most outspoken portrait to grace the castle walls is
Sir Cadogan, who Harry, Ron and Hermione encountered in
their third year at Hogwarts. Often seen chasing after his fat
pony, Sir Cadogan is a boastful knight who challenges passers-by
to duels whenever he is given the opportunity. Legend has it that
Sir Cadogan was as brash and brave in life as he appears to be in
his portrait.

‌ IR CADOGAN
S
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

Unknown
WAND:

(According to legend) Blackthorn and troll whisker, nine inches,
combustible
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Gryffindor
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Insane bravery
PARENTAGE:

Wizard father, witch mother
FAMILY:

Three wives are believed to have left him, rumoured to have had
seventeen known children
Before the wizarding community was forced into hiding, it was not
unusual for a wizard to live in the Muggle community and hold
down what we would now think of as a Muggle job.

It is widely believed in wizarding circles that Sir Cadogan was
one of the famous Knights of the Round Table, albeit a little-known
one, and that he achieved this position through his friendship with
Merlin. He has certainly been excised from all Muggle volumes of
King Arthur’s story, but wizarding versions of the tales include Sir
Cadogan alongside Sir Lancelot, Sir Bedivere and Sir Percivale.
These tales reveal him to be hot-headed and peppery, and brave to
the point of foolhardiness, but a good man in a corner.
Sir Cadogan’s most famous encounter was with the Wyvern of
Wye, a dragonish creature that was terrorizing the West Country.
At their first encounter, the beast ate Sir Cadogan’s handsome steed,
bit his wand in half and melted his sword and visor. Unable to see
through the steam rising from his melting helmet, Sir Cadogan
barely escaped with his life. However, rather than running away, he
staggered into a nearby meadow, grabbed a small, fat pony grazing
there, leapt upon it and galloped back towards the wyvern with
nothing but his broken wand in his hand, prepared to meet a valiant
death. The creature lowered its fearsome head to swallow Sir
Cadogan and the pony whole, but the splintered and misfiring
wand pierced its tongue, igniting the gassy fumes rising from its
stomach and causing the wyvern to explode.
Elderly witches and wizards still use the saying ‘I’ll take
Cadogan’s pony’ to mean, ‘I’ll salvage the best I can from a tricky
situation’.
Sir Cadogan’s portrait, which hangs on the seventh floor of
Hogwarts Castle, shows him with the pony he rode forever more
(which, understandably perhaps, never much liked him) and
accurately depicts his hot temper, his love of a foolhardy challenge
and his determination to beat the enemy, come what may.

‌

Hogwarts is teeming with secrets. It seems from Harry’s
explorations that every locked door and empty classroom
conceals a rare magical object or fearsome monster of some kind.
Let’s start with one of the most tempting but potentially
devastating objects hidden in the grounds: the Mirror of Erised.

MIRROR OF ERISED
BY J.K. ROWLING
The Mirror of Erised is a very old device. Nobody knows who
created it, or how it came to be at Hogwarts School. A succession of
teachers have brought back interesting artefacts from their travels,
so it might have arrived at the castle in this casual manner, either
because the teacher knew how it worked and was intrigued by it, or
because they did not understand it and wished to ask their
colleagues’ opinions.
The Mirror of Erised is one of those magical artefacts that
seems to have been created in a spirit of fun (whether innocent or
malevolent is a matter of opinion), because while it is much more
revealing than a normal mirror, it is interesting rather than useful.
Only after Professor Dumbledore makes key modifications to the
mirror (which has been languishing in the Room of Requirement
for a century or so before he brings it out and puts it to work) does
it become a superb hiding place, and the final test for the impure of
heart.
The mirror’s inscription (‘erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on
wohsi’) must be read backwards to show its true purpose.
Albus Dumbledore, who brings it out of hiding, puts it back
where he found it when it has achieved his purpose in Philosopher’s
Stone. We must conclude, therefore, that the mirror was destroyed,
along with all the other contents of the Room of Requirement,
during the Battle of Hogwarts.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Albus Dumbledore’s words of caution to Harry when discussing the
Mirror of Erised express my own views. The advice to ‘hold on to
your dreams’ is all well and good, but there comes a point when
holding on to your dreams becomes unhelpful and even unhealthy.
Dumbledore knows that life can pass you by while you are clinging
on to a wish that can never be – or ought never to be – fulfilled.
Harry’s deepest yearning is for something impossible: the return of
his parents. Desperately sad though it is that he has been deprived
of his family, Dumbledore knows that to sit gazing on a vision of
what he can never have, will only damage Harry. The mirror is
bewitching and tantalising, but it does not necessarily bring
happiness.

Dumbledore may have concealed what he truly saw when
looking in the Mirror of Erised, but the Headmaster didn’t hide
all of his memories. Over the years, the powerful Pensieve in the
Headmaster’s office was used to let Harry explore Tom Riddle’s
mysterious past, the Crouch family’s terrible history, and
Slughorn’s greatest mistake. Like many items in the
Headmaster’s office, a Pensieve is hard to come by and tricky to
use.

‌ ENSIEVE
P
BY J.K. ROWLING
A Pensieve is a wide and shallow dish made of metal or stone, often
elaborately decorated or inlaid with precious stones, and carrying
powerful and complex enchantments. Pensieves are rare, because
only the most advanced wizards ever use them, and because the
majority of wizardkind is afraid of doing so.
The perceived dangers of the Pensieve relate to its power over
memory or thought. The Pensieve is enchanted to recreate
memories so that they become re-liveable, taking every detail
stored in the subconscious and recreating it faithfully, so that either
the owner, or (and herein lies the danger) a second party, is able to
enter the memories and move around within them. Inevitably,
those with things to hide, those ashamed of their pasts, those eager
to keep hold of their secrets, or protective of their privacy, will be
wary of an object like the Pensieve.
Even more difficult than the recreation of memories is the use
of a Pensieve to examine and sort thoughts and ideas, and very few
wizards have the ability to do so. Albus Dumbledore is seen using
the Hogwarts Pensieve in this way, notably in Chapter Thirty of
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, when he adds thoughts to the
Pensieve and Harry’s face turns into Snape’s; Dumbledore is
reminding himself of the hidden connection between Snape and
Harry (that Snape was in love with Harry’s mother, and is now –
though immensely grudgingly – honour-bound to protect him).
’

Traditionally, a witch or wizard’s Pensieve, like their wand, is
buried with them, as it is considered an intensely personal artefact;
any thoughts or memories left inside the Pensieve are likewise
interred with their owner, unless he or she has requested otherwise.
The Hogwarts Pensieve, however, belongs not to any individual but
to the school. It has been used by a long line of headmasters and
headmistresses, who have also left behind their life experience in
the form of memories. This forms an invaluable library of reference
for the headmaster or headmistress of the day.
The Hogwarts Pensieve is made of ornately carved stone and is
engraved with modified Saxon runes, which mark it as an artefact
of immense antiquity that pre-dates the creation of the school. One
(unsubstantiated) legend says that the founders discovered the
Pensieve half-buried in the ground on the very spot where they
decided to erect their school.
The name ‘Pensieve’ is a homonym of ‘pensive’, meaning
deeply, seriously thoughtful; but it also a pun, the ‘sieve’ part of the
word alluding to the object’s function of sorting meanings from a
mass of thoughts or memories.

If you wanted to explore the castle forever and ever, you’d need to
get hold of the Philosopher’s Stone. Before it was destroyed,
obviously. But did you know that the stone has a history outside
the wizarding world?

THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
I did not invent the concept of the Philosopher’s Stone, which is a
legendary substance that was once believed to be real, and the true
goal of alchemy.
The properties of ‘my’ Philosopher’s Stone conform to most of
the attributes the ancients ascribed to it. The Stone was believed to
turn base metals into gold, and also to produce the Elixir of Life,
which could make you immortal. ‘Genuine’ alchemists – the
forerunners of chemists and physicists – such as Sir Isaac Newton
and (the real) Nicolas Flamel, sought, sometimes over lifetimes, to
discover the secret of its creation.
The Stone is variously described as red and white in the many
old texts in which it appears. These colours are important in most
accounts of alchemy, and are often interpreted as having symbolic
meaning.

The Philosopher’s Stone isn’t the only mysterious artefact to
appear to Harry in his hour of need. The sword of Gryffindor
was goblin-made and studded with rubies, and was once owned
by Hogwarts founder Godric Gryffindor. It was the appearance
of the sword that appeased Harry’s doubts as to whether he was a
true Gryffindor or not – as Dumbledore pointed out, ‘Only a
true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of the Hat, Harry.’

THE SWORD OF GRYFFINDOR
BY J.K. ROWLING
The sword of Gryffindor was made a thousand years ago by
goblins, the magical world’s most skilled metalworkers, and is
therefore enchanted. Fashioned from pure silver, it is inset with
rubies, the stone that represents Gryffindor in the hour-glasses that
count the house points at Hogwarts. Godric Gryffindor’s name is
engraved just beneath the hilt.
The sword was made to Godric Gryffindor’s specifications by
Ragnuk the First, finest of the goblin silversmiths, and therefore
King (in goblin culture, the ruler does not work less than the others,
but more skillfully). When it was finished, Ragnuk coveted it so
much that he pretended that Gryffindor had stolen it from him, and
sent minions to steal it back. Gryffindor defended himself with his
wand, but did not kill his attackers. Instead he sent them back to
their king bewitched, to deliver the threat that if he ever tried to
steal from Gryffindor again, Gryffindor would unsheathe the sword
against them all.
The goblin king took the threat seriously and left Gryffindor in
possession of his rightful property, but remained resentful until he
died. This was the foundation for the false legend of Gryffindor’s
theft that persists, in some sections of the goblin community, to this
day.
The question of why a wizard would need a sword, though
often asked, is easily answered. In the days before the International
Statute of Secrecy, when wizards mingled freely with Muggles, they

would use swords to defend themselves just as often as wands.
Indeed, it was considered unsporting to use a wand against a
Muggle sword (which is not to say it was never done). Many gifted
wizards were also accomplished duellists in the conventional sense,
Gryffindor among them.
Much like a magic wand, the sword of Gryffindor appears to be
almost sentient, responding to appeals for help by Gryffindor’s
chosen successors; and, similar to a wand, part of its magic is that it
imbibes that which strengthens it, which can then be used against
enemies.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
There have been many enchanted swords in folklore. The Sword of
Nuadu, part of the four legendary treasures of Tuatha Dé Danann,
was invincible when drawn. Gryffindor’s sword owes something to
the legend of Excalibur, the sword of King Arthur, which in some
legends must be drawn from a stone by the rightful king. The idea
of fitness to carry the sword is echoed in the sword of Gryffindor’s
return to worthy members of its true owner’s house.
There is a further allusion to Excalibur emerging from the lake
when Harry must dive into a frozen forest pool to retrieve the
sword in Deathly Hallows (though the location of the sword was
really due to a spiteful impulse of Snape’s to place it there), for in
other versions of the legend, Excalibur was given to Arthur by the
Lady of the Lake, and was returned to the lake when he died.
Within the magical world, physical possession is not
necessarily a guarantee of ownership. This concept applies to the
three Deathly Hallows, and also to Gryffindor’s sword.
I am interested in what happens when cultural beliefs collide.
In the Harry Potter books, the most militant of the goblin race
consider all goblin-made objects to be theirs by right, although a
specific object might be made over to a wizard for his lifespan upon
a payment of gold. Witches and wizards, like Muggles, believe that
once payment has been made, the object belongs to them and their
descendants or legatees in perpetuity. This is a clash of values
without a solution, because each side has a different concept of
what is right. It therefore presents Harry with a difficult moral
dilemma when Griphook demands the sword as payment for his
services in Deathly Hallows.

Perhaps Hogwarts’ most enduring and sinister enigma is that of
the Chamber of Secrets, a hidden area of the school created by
the ambitious Hogwarts founder Salazar Slytherin. When Tom
Riddle’s mysterious diary led Harry to discover the Chamber’s
dark secrets in his second year, the legend was awakened once
again. Although few have actually entered the subterranean
chamber, its existence wasn’t kept entirely secret – after all,
somebody had to adapt the hidden entrance once the school
decided to build a bathroom on top of it.

THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS
BY J.K. ROWLING
The subterranean Chamber of Secrets was created by Salazar
Slytherin without the knowledge of his three fellow founders of
Hogwarts. The Chamber was, for many centuries, believed to be a
myth; however, the fact that rumours of its existence persisted for
so long reveals that Slytherin spoke of its creation and that others
believed him, or else had been permitted, by him, to enter.
There is no doubt that each of the four founders sought to
stamp their own mark upon the school of witchcraft and wizardry
that they intended would be the finest in the world. It was agreed
that each would construct their own houses, for example, choosing
the location of common rooms and dormitories. However, only
Slytherin went further, and built what was in effect a personal,
secret headquarters within the school, accessible only by himself or
by those he allowed to enter.
Perhaps, when he first constructed the Chamber, Slytherin
wanted no more than a place in which to instruct his students in
spells of which the other three founders may have disapproved
(disagreements sprung up early around the teaching of the Dark
Arts). However, it is clear by the very decoration of the Chamber
that by the time Slytherin finished it he had developed grandiose
ideas of his own importance to the school. No other founder left
behind them a gigantic statue of themselves or draped the school in
emblems of their own personal powers (the snakes carved around
’

the Chamber of Secrets being a reference to Slytherin’s powers as a
Parselmouth).
What is certain is that by the time Slytherin was forced out of
the school by the other three founders, he had decided that
henceforth, the Chamber he had built would be the lair of a
monster that he alone – or his descendants – would be able to
control: a Basilisk. Moreover, only a Parselmouth would be able to
enter the Chamber. This, he knew, would keep out all three
founders and every other member of staff.
The existence of the Chamber was known to Slytherin’s
descendants and those with whom they chose to share the
information. Thus the rumour stayed alive through the centuries.
There is clear evidence that the Chamber was opened more
than once between the death of Slytherin and the entrance of Tom
Riddle in the twentieth century. When first created, the Chamber
was accessed through a concealed trapdoor and a series of magical
tunnels. However, when Hogwarts’ plumbing became more
elaborate in the eighteenth century (this was a rare instance of
wizards copying Muggles, because hitherto they simply relieved
themselves wherever they stood, and vanished the evidence), the
entrance to the Chamber was threatened, being located on the site
of a proposed bathroom. The presence in school at the time of a
student called Corvinus Gaunt – direct descendant of Slytherin,
and antecedent of Tom Riddle – explains how the simple trapdoor
was secretly protected, so that those who knew how could still
access the entrance to the Chamber even after newfangled
plumbing had been placed on top of it.
Whispers that a monster lived in the depths of the castle were
also prevalent for centuries. Again, this is because those who could
hear and speak to it were not always as discreet as they might have
been: the Gaunt family could not resist boasting of their knowledge.
As nobody else could hear the creature sliding beneath floorboards
or, latterly, through the plumbing, they did not have many believers,
and none, until Riddle, dared unleash the monster on the castle.

Successive headmasters and mistresses, not to mention a
number of historians, searched the castle thoroughly many times
over the centuries, each time concluding that the Chamber was a
myth. The reason for their failure was simple: none of them was a
Parselmouth.

So there you have it: it’s not a guided tour, nor is it entirely
complete, but you’re now privy to some of the famous wizarding
school’s many secrets. We leave you with these small pieces of
advice: tread carefully when using a Time-Turner, stop
searching for the Chamber of Secrets – unless you’re a
Parselmouth – and don’t linger too long before the Mirror of
Erised.
We hope you’ve enjoyed this collection of J.K. Rowling’s writing,
presented by Pottermore.

Digital Editions also published by Pottermore
Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Parts One and Two
Based on an original new story by J.K. Rowling, John Tiffany and Jack Thorne
A new play by Jack Thorne

Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous
Hobbies
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky
Poltergeists
Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide

‌

Discover even more of
J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World...
Visit www.pottermore.com, where your own Sorting Ceremony,
exclusive new writing by J.K. Rowling and all the latest news and
features from the Wizarding World awaits.
Pottermore, the digital publishing, e-commerce, entertainment and
news company from J.K. Rowling, is the global digital publisher of
Harry Potter and J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World. As the digital
heart of J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World, pottermore.com is
dedicated to unlocking the power of imagination. It offers news,
features, and articles as well as new and previously unreleased
writing by J.K. Rowling.

‌

All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher
This edition first published by Pottermore Limited in 2016
Text © J.K. Rowling
Cover design and interior illustrations by MinaLima © Pottermore Limited
Harry Potter characters, names and related indicia are trademarks of and © Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
J.K. ROWLING’S WIZARDING WORLD TM J.K. Rowling and Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.
The moral right of the author has been asserted
ISBN 978-1-78110-627-3

