The digital heart
of the Wizarding World

www.pottermore.com

CONTENTS
CHAPTER ONE
Dolores Umbridge
CHAPTER TWO
Ministers for Magic
Azkaban
CHAPTER THREE
Horace Slughorn
Potions
Polyjuice Potion
Cauldrons
CHAPTER FOUR
Quirinus Quirrell
CHAPTER FIVE
Peeves the Poltergeist

FROM THE POTTERMORE EDITOR:

Every witch or wizard with a wand has held in his or her hands
more power than we will ever know. With the right spell or
potion, they can fabricate love, travel through time, change
physical form and even extinguish life.
In the wrong hands, power and magic can be dark, lethal, and
consuming. Lord Voldemort showed us that; he sought power so
viciously that he tore apart the fabric of his soul and lost
everything that made him human. He is the ultimate villain,
motivated by an ice-cold desire for power and destruction.
Obviously few people could match Voldemort in general evil
intent (though Bellatrix Lestrange and Dolores Umbridge indeed
try), but there are certainly other characters attracted to power.
Here, we’ve collected writing by J.K. Rowling on power and
politics… And just for fun, poltergeists, too.

‌

Dolores Umbridge may have looked like an iced cupcake, but she
was anything but sweet. She was savage, sadistic and
remorseless. When she dared take control of Hogwarts from
Albus Dumbledore, she committed all sorts of sinister acts. Under
the newly created title of ‘High Inquisitor’ she single-handedly
(well, with a little help from Filch) sucked the beloved school of
all its joy, put every student in grave danger, and tortured Harry
Potter. As far as we’re concerned, she more than deserved her fate
at the hands (hooves?) of centaurs.
Here’s a much-needed glimpse into her dark past, by J.K.
Rowling.

DOLORES UMBRIDGE
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

26th August
WAND:

Birch and dragon heartstring, eight inches long
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Slytherin
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Her punishment quill is of her own invention
PARENTAGE:

Muggle mother, wizard father
FAMILY:

Unmarried, no children
HOBBIES:

Collecting the ‘Frolicsome Feline’ ornamental plate range,
adding flounces to fabric and frills to stationary objects,
inventing instruments of torture
Dolores Jane Umbridge was the eldest child and only daughter of
Orford Umbridge, a wizard, and Ellen Cracknell, a Muggle, who
’

also had a Squib son. Dolores’s parents were unhappily married,
and Dolores secretly despised both of them: Orford for his lack of
ambition (he had never been promoted, and worked in the
Department of Magical Maintenance at the Ministry of Magic), and
her mother, Ellen, for her flightiness, untidiness, and Muggle
lineage. Both Orford and his daughter blamed Ellen for Dolores’s
brother’s lack of magical ability, with the result that when Dolores
was fifteen, the family split down the middle, Orford and Dolores
remaining together, and Ellen vanishing back into the Muggle
world with her son. Dolores never saw her mother or brother again,
never spoke of either of them, and henceforth pretended to all she
met that she was a pure-blood.
An accomplished witch, Dolores joined the Ministry of Magic
directly after she left Hogwarts, taking a job as a lowly intern in the
Improper Use of Magic Office. Even at seventeen, Dolores was
judgemental, prejudiced and sadistic, although her conscientious
attitude, her saccharine manner towards her superiors, and the
ruthlessness and stealth with which she took credit for other
people’s work soon gained her advancement. Before she was thirty,
Dolores had been promoted to head of the office, and it was but a
short step from there to ever more senior positions in the
management of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. By
this time, she had persuaded her father to take early retirement, and
by making him a small financial allowance, she ensured that he
dropped quietly out of sight. Whenever she was asked (usually by
workmates who did not like her) ‘are you related to that Umbridge
who used to mop the floors here?’ she would smile her sweetest,
laugh, and deny any connection whatsoever, claiming that her
deceased father had been a distinguished member of the
Wizengamot. Nasty things tended to happen to people who asked
about Orford, or anything that Dolores did not like talking about,
and people who wanted to remain on her good side pretended to
believe her version of her ancestry.

In spite of her best efforts to secure the affections of one of her
superiors (she never cared particularly which of them it was, but
knew that her own status and security would be advanced with a
powerful husband), Dolores never succeeded in marrying. While
they valued her hard work and ambition, those who got to know
her best found it difficult to like her very much. After a glass of
sweet sherry, Dolores was always prone to spout very uncharitable
views, and even those who were anti-Muggle found themselves
shocked by some of Dolores’s suggestions, behind closed doors, of
the treatment that the non-magical community deserved.
As she grew older and harder, and rose higher within the
Ministry, Dolores’s taste in little girlish accessories grew more and
more pronounced; her office became a place of frills and furbelows,
and she liked anything decorated with kittens (though found the
real thing inconveniently messy). As the Minister for Magic
Cornelius Fudge became increasingly anxious and paranoid that
Albus Dumbledore had ambitions to supersede him, Dolores
managed to claw her way to the very heart of power, by stoking
both Fudge’s vanity and his fears, and presenting herself as one of
the few he could trust.
Dolores’s appointment as Inquisitor at Hogwarts gave full
scope, for the first time in her life, for her prejudices and her
cruelty. She had not enjoyed her time at school, where she had been
overlooked for all positions of responsibility, and she relished the
chance to return and wield power over those who had not (as she
saw it) given her her due.
Dolores has what amounts to a phobia of beings that are not
quite, or wholly, human. Her distaste for the half-giant Hagrid, and
her terror of centaurs, reveal a terror of the unknown and the wild.
She is an immensely controlling person, and all who challenge her
authority and world-view must, in her opinion, be punished. She
actively enjoys subjugating and humiliating others, and except in
their declared allegiances, there is little to choose between her and
Bellatrix Lestrange.
’

Dolores’s time at Hogwarts ended disastrously, because she
overreached the remit Fudge had given her, stepping outside the
bounds of her own authority, carried away with a fanatical sense of
self-purpose. Shaken but unrepentant after a catastrophic end to
her Hogwarts career, she returned to a Ministry, which had been
plunged into turmoil due to the return of Lord Voldemort.
In the change of regimes that followed Fudge’s forced
resignation, Dolores was able to slip back into her former position
at the Ministry. The new Minister, Rufus Scrimgeour, had more
immediate problems pressing in on him than Dolores Umbridge.
Scrimgeour was later punished for this oversight, because the fact
that the Ministry had never punished Dolores for her many abuses
of power seemed to Harry Potter to reveal both its complacency
and its carelessness. Harry considered Dolores’s continuing
employment, and the lack of any repercussions for her behaviour at
Hogwarts, a sign of the Ministry’s essential corruption, and refused
to cooperate with the new Minister because of it (Dolores is the
only person, other than Lord Voldemort, to leave a permanent
physical scar on Harry, having forced him to cut the words ‘I must
not tell lies’ on the back of his own hand during detention).
Dolores was soon enjoying life at the Ministry more than ever.
When the Ministry was taken over by the puppet Minister Pius
Thicknesse, and infiltrated by the Dark Lord’s followers, Dolores
was in her true element at last. Correctly judged, by senior Death
Eaters, to have much more in common with them than she ever had
with Albus Dumbledore, she not only retained her post but was
given extra authority, becoming Head of the Muggle-born
Registration Commission, which was in effect a kangaroo court
that imprisoned all Muggle-borns on the basis that they had ‘stolen’
their wands and their magic.
It was as she sat in judgement of another innocent woman that
Harry Potter finally attacked Dolores in the very heart of the
Ministry, and stole from her the Horcrux she had unwittingly been
wearing.

With the fall of Lord Voldemort, Dolores Umbridge was put on
trial for her enthusiastic co-operation with his regime, and
convicted of the torture, imprisonment and deaths of several people
(some of the innocent Muggle-borns she sentenced to Azkaban did
not survive their ordeal).

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Once, long ago, I took instruction in a certain skill or subject (I am
being vague as vague can be, for reasons that are about to become
obvious), and in doing so, came into contact with a teacher or
instructor whom I disliked intensely on sight.
The woman in question returned my antipathy with interest.
Why we took against each other so instantly, heartily and (on my
side, at least) irrationally, I honestly cannot say. What sticks in my
mind is her pronounced taste for twee accessories. I particularly
recall a tiny little plastic bow slide, pale lemon in colour that she
wore in her short curly hair. I used to stare at that little slide, which
would have been appropriate to a girl of three, as though it was
some kind of repellent physical growth. She was quite a stocky
woman, and not in the first flush of youth, and her tendency to
wear frills where (I felt) frills had no business to be, and to carry
undersized handbags, again as though they had been borrowed
from a child’s dressing-up box, jarred, I felt, with a personality that I
found the reverse of sweet, innocent and ingenuous.
I am always a little wary when talking about these kinds of
sources of inspiration, because it is infuriating to hear yourself
misinterpreted in ways that can cause other people a great deal of
hurt. This woman was NOT ‘the real Dolores Umbridge’. She did
not look like a toad, she was never sadistic or vicious to me or
anyone else, and I never heard her express a single view in common
with Umbridge (indeed, I never knew her well enough to know
much about her views or preferences, which makes my dislike of
her even less justifiable). However, it is true to say that I borrowed
from her, then grossly exaggerated, a taste for the sickly sweet and
girlish in dress, and it was that tiny little pale lemon plastic bow that

I was remembering when I perched the fly-like ornament on
Dolores Umbridge’s head.
I have noticed more than once in life that a taste for the
ineffably twee can go hand-in-hand with a distinctly uncharitable
outlook on the world. I once shared an office with a woman who
had covered the wall space behind her desk with pictures of fluffy
kitties; she was the most bigoted, spiteful champion of the death
penalty with whom it has ever been my misfortune to share a kettle.
A love of all things saccharine often seems present where there is a
lack of real warmth or charity.
So Dolores, who is one of the characters for whom I feel purest
dislike, became an amalgam of traits taken from these, and a variety
of sources. Her desire to control, to punish and to inflict pain, all in
the name of law and order, are, I think, every bit as reprehensible as
Lord Voldemort’s unvarnished espousal of evil.
Umbridge’s names were carefully chosen. ‘Dolores’ means
sorrow, something she undoubtedly inflicts on all around her.
‘Umbridge’ is a play on ‘umbrage’ from the British expression ‘to
take umbrage’, meaning offence. Dolores is offended by any
challenge to her limited world-view; I felt her surname conveyed
the pettiness and rigidity of her character. It is harder to explain
‘Jane’; it simply felt rather smug and neat between her other two
names.

Dolores Umbridge had two offices – one at Hogwarts, the other
at the Ministry of Magic – but both were decorated with foul
meowing kitten plates. Now, she may never have been appointed
Minister for Magic herself, but she did know how to influence
anyone who was. Just think how diabolically well she worked
with Cornelius Fudge to spread rumours about Harry Potter,
deny the return of Voldemort, and depose Dumbledore.
If you want to understand anything about wizarding world
politics, you’d better look at exactly who has held the position of
Minister. And keep an eye out, as there’s a familiar surname or
two amongst them.

MINISTERS FOR MAGIC
BY J.K. ROWLING
The Ministry of Magic was formally established in 1707 with the
appointment of the very first man to hold the title ‘Minister for
Magic’, Ulick Gamp.* The Minister for Magic is democratically
elected, although there have been times of crisis in which the post
has simply been offered to an individual without a public vote
(Albus Dumbledore was made such an offer, and turned it down
repeatedly). There is no fixed limit to a Minister’s term of office, but
he or she is obliged to hold regular elections at a maximum interval
of seven years. Ministers for Magic tend to last much longer than
Muggle ministers. Generally speaking, and despite many a moan
and grumble, their community is behind them in a way that is
rarely seen in the Muggle world. This is perhaps due to a feeling, on
the part of wizards, that unless they are seen to manage themselves
competently, the Muggles might try to interfere.
The Muggle Prime Minister has no part in appointing the
Minister for Magic, whose election is a matter only for the magical
community themselves. All matters relating to the magical
community in Britain are managed solely by the Minister for
Magic, and he has sole jurisdiction over his Ministry. Emergency
visits to the Muggle Prime Minister by the Minister for Magic are
announced by a portrait of Ulick Gamp (first Minister for Magic)
that hangs in the Muggle Prime Minister’s study in Number 10
Downing Street.

No Muggle Prime Minister has ever set foot in the Ministry of
Magic, for reasons most succinctly summed up by ex-Minister
Dugald McPhail (term of office 1858 – 1865): ‘their puir wee
braines couldnae cope wi’ it.’

Ulick Gamp
TERM OF OFFICE: 1707 – 1718
Previously head of the Wizengamot, Gamp had the onerous job of
policing a fractious and frightened community adjusting to the
imposition of the International Statute of Secrecy. His greatest
legacy was to found the Department of Magical Law Enforcement.
MINISTER:

Damocles Rowle
1718 – 1726
Rowle was elected on a platform of being ‘tough on Muggles’.
Censured by the International Confederation of Wizards, he was
eventually forced to step down.

Perseus Parkinson
1726 – 1733
Attempted to pass a bill making it illegal to marry a Muggle.
Misread the public mood; the wizarding community, tired of antiMuggle sentiment and wanting peace, voted him out at the first
opportunity.

Eldritch Diggory
1733 – 1747

Popular Minister who first established an Auror recruitment
programme. Died in office (dragon pox).

Albert Boot
1747 – 1752
Likeable, but inept. Resigned after a mismanaged goblin rebellion.

Basil Flack
1752 – 1752
Shortest serving Minister. Lasted two months; resigned after the
goblins joined forces with werewolves.

Hesphaestus Gore
1752 – 1770
Gore was one of the earliest Aurors. Successfully put down a
number of revolts by magical beings, although historians feel his
refusal to contemplate rehabilitation programmes for werewolves
ultimately led to more attacks. Renovated and reinforced the prison
of Azkaban.

Maximilian Crowdy
1770 – 1781
Father-of-nine Crowdy was a charismatic leader who routed out
several extremist pure-blood groups planning Muggle attacks. His
mysterious death in office has been the subject of numerous books
and conspiracy theories.

Porteus Knatchbull
1781 – 1789
Was called in confidentially in 1782 by the Muggle Prime Minister
of the day, Lord North, to see whether he could help with King
George III’s emerging mental instability. Word leaked out that Lord
North believed in wizards, and he was forced to resign after a
motion of no confidence.

Unctuous Osbert
1789 – 1798
Widely seen as too much influenced by pure-bloods of wealth and
status.

Artemisia Lufkin
1798 – 1811
First female Minister for Magic. Established Department of
International Magical Co-operation and lobbied hard and
successfully to have a Quidditch World Cup tournament held in
Britain during her term.

Grogan Stump
1811 – 1819
Very popular Minister for Magic, a passionate Quidditch fan
(Tutshill Tornados), established the Department of Magical Games
and Sports and managed to steer through legislation on magical
beasts and beings that had long been a source of contention.

Josephina Flint

1819 – 1827
Revealed an unhealthy anti-Muggle bias in office; disliked new
Muggle technology such as the telegraph, which she claimed
interfered with proper wand function.

Ottaline Gambol
1827 – 1835
A much more forward-looking Minister, Gambol established
committees to investigate Muggle brainpower, which seemed,
during this period of the British Empire, to be greater than some
wizards had credited.

Radolphus Lestrange
1835 – 1841
Reactionary who attempted to close down the Department of
Mysteries, which ignored him. Eventually resigned due to ill health,
which was widely rumoured to be inability to cope with the strains
of office.

Hortensia Milliphutt
1841 – 1849
Introduced more legislation than any other sitting Minister, much
of it useful, but some wearisome (hat pointiness and so on), which
ultimately resulted in her political downfall.

Evangeline Orpington
1849 – 1855

’

A good friend of Queen Victoria’s, who never realised she was a
witch, let alone Minister for Magic. Orpington is believed to have
intervened magically (and illegally) in the Crimean War.

Priscilla Dupont
1855 – 1858
Conceived an irrational loathing of the Muggle Prime Minister
Lord Palmerston, to an extent that caused such trouble (coins
turning to frogspawn in his coat pockets, etc) that she was forced to
step down. Ironically, Palmerston was forced to resign by the
Muggles two days later.

Dugald McPhail
1858 – 1865
A safe pair of hands. While the Muggle parliament underwent a
period of marked upheaval, the Ministry of Magic knew a period of
welcome calm.

Faris ‘Spout-hole’ Spavin
1865 – 1903
Longest-ever serving Minister for Magic, and also the most longwinded, he survived an ‘assassination attempt’ (kicking) from a
centaur who resented the punchline of Spavin’s infamous ‘a centaur,
a ghost and a dwarf walk into a bar’ joke. Attended Queen Victoria’s
funeral in an admiral’s hat and spats, at which point the
Wizengamot suggested gently that it was time he move aside
(Spavin was 147 when he left office).

Venusia Crickerly
1903 – 1912
Second ex-Auror to take office and considered both competent and
likeable, Crickerly died in a freak gardening accident (mandrake
related).

Archer Evermonde
1912 – 1923
In post during the Muggle First World War, Evermonde passed
emergency legislation forbidding witches and wizards to get
involved, lest they risk mass infractions of the International Statute
of Secrecy. Thousands defied him, aiding Muggles where they
could.

Lorcan McLaird
1923 – 1925
A gifted wizard, but an unlikely politician, McLaird was an
exceptionally taciturn man who preferred to communicate in
monosyllables and expressive puffs of smoke that he produced
through the end of his wand. Forced from office out of sheer
irritation at his eccentricities.

Hector Fawley
1925 – 1939
Undoubtedly voted in because of his marked difference to McLaird,
the ebullient and flamboyant Fawley did not take sufficiently
seriously the threat presented to the world wizarding community
by Gellert Grindelwald. He paid with his job.

Leonard Spencer-Moon
1939 – 1948
A sound Minister who rose through the ranks from being tea-boy
in the Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes.
Oversaw a great period of international wizarding and Muggle
conflict. Enjoyed a good working relationship with Winston
Churchill.

Wilhelmina Tuft
1948 – 1959
Cheery witch who presided over a period of welcome peace and
prosperity. Died in office after discovering, too late, her allergy to
Alihotsy-flavoured fudge.

Ignatius Tuft
1959 – 1962
Son of the above. A hard-liner who capitalised on his mother’s
popularity to gain election. Promised to institute a controversial
and dangerous Dementor breeding program and was forced from
office.

Nobby Leach
1962 – 1968
First Muggle-born Minister for Magic, his appointment caused
consternation among the old (pure-blood) guard, many of whom
resigned government posts in protest. Has always denied having
anything to do with England’s 1966 World Cup Win. Left office
after contracting a mysterious illness (conspiracy theories abound).

Eugenia Jenkins
1968 – 1975
Jenkins dealt competently with pure-blood riots during Squib
Rights marches in the late sixties, but was soon confronted with the
first rise of Lord Voldemort. Jenkins was soon ousted from office as
inadequate to the challenge.

Harold Minchum
1975 – 1980
Seen as a hard-liner, he placed even more Dementors around
Azkaban, but was unable to contain what looked like Voldemort’s
unstoppable rise to power.

Millicent Bagnold
1980 – 1990
A highly able Minister. Had to answer to the International
Confederation of Wizards for the number of breaches of the
International Statute of Secrecy on the day and night following
Harry Potter’s survival of Lord Voldemort’s attack. Acquitted
herself magnificently with the now infamous words: ‘I assert our
inalienable right to party’, which drew cheers from all present.

Cornelius Fudge
1990 – 1996
A career politician overly fond of the old guard. Persistent denial of
the continuing threat of Lord Voldemort ultimately cost him his
job.

Rufus Scrimgeour
1996 – 1997
The third ex-Auror to gain office, Scrimgeour died in office at the
hands of Lord Voldemort.

Pius Thicknesse
1997 – 1998
Omitted from most official records, as he was under the Imperius
Curse for his entire term of office, and unconscious of anything
that he was doing.

Kingsley Shacklebolt
1998 – present
Oversaw the capture of Death Eaters and Voldemort supporters
following the death of Lord Voldemort. Initially named as ‘caretaker
Minister’, Shacklebolt was subsequently elected to the office.
* Prior to 1707, the Wizards’ Council was the longest serving (though not the only) body
to govern the magical community in Britain. After the imposition of the International
Statute of Secrecy in 1692, however, the wizarding community needed a more highly
structured, organised and more complex governing structure than they had hitherto
used, to support, regulate and communicate with a community in hiding. Only witches
and wizards who enjoyed the title of ‘Minister for Magic’ are included in this entry.

How great would it have been to share a foaming pint of
Butterbeer with Faris ‘Spout-hole’ Spavin? But there are a few in
that list we’d avoid altogether – Damocles Rowle, for instance,
the Minister who first began sending criminals to Azkaban.
Even before it became a notorious prison, the island fortress was
not exactly somewhere you’d go on a family holiday. You might
want to get a very happy memory and a fervent ‘Expecto
Patronum!’ at the ready…

‌ ZKABAN
A
BY J.K. ROWLING
Azkaban has existed since the fifteenth century and was not
originally a prison at all. The island in the North Sea upon which
the first fortress was built never appeared on any map, Muggle or
wizarding, and is believed to have been created, or enlarged, by
magical means.
The fortress upon it was originally home to a little-known
sorcerer who called himself Ekrizdis. Evidently extremely powerful,
but of unknown nationality, Ekrizdis, who is believed to have been
insane, was a practitioner of the worst kinds of Dark Arts. Alone in
the middle of the ocean, he lured, tortured and killed Muggle
sailors, apparently for pleasure, and only when he died, and the
concealment charms he had cast faded away, did the Ministry of
Magic realise that either island or building existed. Those who
entered to investigate refused afterwards to talk of what they had
found inside, but the least frightening part of it was that the place
was infested with Dementors.
Many in authority thought Azkaban an evil place that was best
destroyed. Others were afraid of what might happen to the
Dementors infesting the building if they deprived them of their
home. The creatures were already strong and impossible to kill;
many feared a horrible revenge if they took away a habitat where
they appeared to thrive. The very walls of the building seemed
steeped in misery and pain, and the Dementors were determined to
cling to it. Experts who had studied buildings built with and around

Dark magic contended that Azkaban might wreak its own revenge
upon anybody attempting to destroy it. The fortress was therefore
left abandoned for many years, a home to continually breeding
Dementors.
Once the International Statute of Secrecy had been imposed,
the Ministry of Magic felt that the small wizarding prisons that
existed up and down the country in various towns and villages
posed a security risk, because attempts by incarcerated witches and
wizards to break out often led to undesirable bangs, smells and light
shows. A purpose-built prison, located on some remote Hebridean
island, was preferred, and plans had been drawn up when Damocles
Rowle became Minister for Magic.
Rowle was an authoritarian who had risen to power on an antiMuggle agenda, capitalising on the anger felt by much of the
wizarding community at being forced to go underground. Sadistic
by nature, Rowle scrapped the plans for the new prison at once and
insisted on using Azkaban. He claimed that the Dementors living
there were an advantage: they could be harnessed as guards, saving
the Ministry time, trouble and expense.
In spite of opposition from many wizards, among them experts
on both Dementors and buildings with Azkaban’s kind of Dark
history, Rowle carried out his plan and soon a steady trickle of
prisoners had been placed there. None ever emerged. If they were
not mad and dangerous before being placed in Azkaban, they
swiftly became so.
Rowle was succeeded by Perseus Parkinson, who was likewise
pro-Azkaban. By the time that Eldritch Diggory took over as
Minister for Magic, the prison had been operating for fifteen years.
There had been no breakouts and no breaches of security. The new
prison seemed to be working well. It was only when Diggory went
to visit that he realised exactly what conditions inside were like.
Prisoners were mostly insane and a graveyard had been established
to accommodate those that died of despair.

Back in London, Diggory established a committee to explore
alternatives to Azkaban, or at least to remove the Dementors as
guards. Experts explained to him that the only reason the
Dementors were (mostly) confined to the island was that they were
being provided with a constant supply of souls on which to feed. If
deprived of prisoners, they were likely to abandon the prison and
head for the mainland.
This advice notwithstanding, Diggory had been so horrified by
what he had seen inside Azkaban that he pressed the committee to
find alternatives. Before they could reach any decision, however,
Diggory caught dragon pox and died. From that time until the
advent of Kingsley Shacklebolt, no Minister ever seriously
considered closing Azkaban. They turned a blind eye to the
inhumane conditions inside the fortress, permitted it to be
magically enlarged and expanded and rarely visited, due to the
awful effects of entering a building populated by thousands of
Dementors. Most justified their attitude by pointing to the prison’s
perfect record at keeping prisoners locked up.
Nearly three centuries passed before that record was broken. A
young man was successfully smuggled out of the prison when his
visiting mother exchanged places with him, something that the
blind and loveless Dementors could not detect and would have
never expected. This escape was followed by another, still more
ingenious and impressive, when Sirius Black managed to evade the
Dementors single-handed.
The weakness of the prison was demonstrated amply over the
next few years, when two mass breakouts occurred, both involving
Death Eaters. By this time the Dementors had given their allegiance
to Lord Voldemort, who could guarantee them scope and freedom
hitherto untasted. Albus Dumbledore was one who had long
disapproved of the use of Dementors as guards, not only because of
the inhumane treatment of the prisoners in their power, but
because he foresaw the possible shift in loyalties of such Dark
creatures.

Under Kingsley Shacklebolt, Azkaban was purged of
Dementors. While it remains in use as a prison, the guards are now
Aurors, who are regularly rotated from the mainland. There has
been no breakout since this new system was introduced.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
The name ‘Azkaban’ derives from a mixture of the prison ‘Alcatraz’,
which is its closest Muggle equivalent, being set on an island, and
‘Abaddon’, which is a Hebrew word meaning ‘place of destruction’
or ‘depths of hell’.

HORACE SLUGHORN
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

28th April
WAND:

Cedar and dragon heartstring, ten and a quarter inches,
fairly flexible
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Slytherin
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Accomplished Occlumens, expert Potioneer, advanced
self-transfiguration
PARENTAGE:

Wizard father, witch mother (family one of the so-called
‘Sacred Twenty-Eight’)
FAMILY:

Never married, no children (although the Slughorn family
continues through a collateral line)
HOBBIES:

The Slug Club, corresponding with famous ex-students,
fine wines and confectionery

‌

Childhood
Horace Eugene Flaccus Slughorn was born into an ancient
wizarding family, the only son of doting and wealthy parents.
Although a fundamentally good-tempered boy, he was educated to
believe in the value of the old boys’ network (his father was a highranking Ministry official in the Department of International
Magical Co-operation), and encouraged to make friends ‘of the
right sort’ once he arrived at Hogwarts. The Slughorn family is one
of the so-called ‘Sacred Twenty-Eight’, (a select list of the only
families designated ‘pure-blooded’ by an anonymous author in the
1930s) and while Slughorn’s parents were never militant in their
pure-blood beliefs, they encouraged a quiet belief in the family’s
innate superiority.
Horace was sorted instantly into Slytherin upon arrival at
Hogwarts. He proved himself an outstanding student, and while he
did not follow his parents’ implied instructions to the letter
(numbering among his friends several talented Muggle-borns), he
practised his own brand of elitism. Horace was drawn to those
whose talents or backgrounds made them in any way distinctive,
revelling in reflected glory, and dazzled by celebrity of any
description. Even as a boy he was an embarrassingly loud namedropper, and would often refer to the Minister for Magic by his
Christian name, happy to imply that the family were on closer
terms with him than was really the case.

Early Teaching Career
In spite of his considerable abilities, his admiration of those who
enjoyed the limelight and his parents’ ambitions for him at the
Ministry, Horace Slughorn was never drawn to the cut and thrust
of politics. He enjoyed his creature comforts and revelled in the
vicarious delights of having high-achieving friends, without much
wanting to emulate any of them. Perhaps he knew in his heart of
hearts that he was not the stuff of which great Ministers are made,
aware that he preferred a less taxing and more comfortable
existence. When offered the job of Potions master at Hogwarts he
was delighted to accept, having a great flair for teaching and a deep
fondness for the old school.
Subsequently promoted to Head of Slytherin house, Slughorn
remained a good-tempered and easy-going man. He had
weaknesses – vanity, snobbery and a certain lack of judgement
when it came to the good-looking and talented – and yet he was
devoid of cruelty or malice. The worst of which he could be accused
during his teaching career is that he made far too great a distinction
between those students whom he found amusing and promising,
and those in whom he saw no flicker of future greatness. The
institution of the ‘Slug Club’ – an out-of-hours dining and social
club for his selected favourites – did nothing to assuage the feelings
of those who were never invited.
Slughorn undoubtedly had a good eye for latent talent; over a
fifty-year period numerous members of the Slug Club, hand-picked
by him, subsequently had dazzling careers in the wizarding world,
in fields as diverse as Quidditch, politics, business and journalism.

Relationship with Voldemort
Unfortunately for Slughorn, one of his very favourite students, a
handsome and exceptionally talented boy called Tom Marvolo
Riddle, had ambitions that were far removed from the likes of the
Ministry or proprietorship of the Daily Prophet. Manipulative and
charming when he chose, Riddle knew exactly how to flatter and
cajole his doting Potions master and Head of House into parting
with forbidden information: how to create Horcruxes. Most illadvisedly, Slughorn gave his protégé the knowledge he had been
lacking.
Although it is not shown in the novels, we may deduce, from
what Professor Dumbledore tells Harry Potter about his own
suspicions about Tom Riddle during the latter’s school days, that
Dumbledore would have warned his colleague Slughorn against
allowing himself to be used by the boy. Slughorn, secure in his own
judgement (which had been vindicated so many times), brushed off
such warnings as paranoia on Dumbledore’s part, believing the
Transfiguration teacher to have taken an unaccountable dislike to
Tom from the moment he had fetched the boy from the orphanage
in which he had been brought up.
Slughorn remained in thrall to Riddle right up until the latter’s
departure from the school, when Slughorn was disappointed to
discover that his prize pupil had not only turned down every
wonderful job offer made to him, but vanished, showing no desire
to keep in touch with the master with whom he had seemed to feel
such an affinity. Slowly, over the ensuing months, Slughorn had to
admit to himself that the affection Tom Riddle had seemed to feel
for him might, after all, have been a pretence. Slughorn’s guilty
feelings about having shared a piece of dangerous magical

knowledge with the boy intensified, but he suppressed them more
determinedly than ever, confiding in no one.
When, a few years after Riddle’s departure from the school, a
Dark wizard of immense power called Lord Voldemort became
active in the wizarding world, Slughorn did not immediately
recognise him as his old pupil. He had never been privy to the
private name that Riddle was already using to his cronies at
Hogwarts, and Voldemort had undergone several physical
transformations since last they met. When Slughorn realised that
this frightening wizard was, indeed, Tom Riddle, he was horrified,
and on the night that Voldemort returned to Hogwarts, seeking a
teaching post, Slughorn hid in his office, frightened that the visitor
would come and claim acquaintance. Voldemort did not trouble to
greet his former Potions master on that occasion, but Slughorn’s
relief was short-lived.
When the wizarding world fell into war, and rumours swirled
that Voldemort had, somehow, made himself immortal, Slughorn
was sure that it was he who had made Voldemort invincible, by
teaching him about Horcruxes (this guilt was misplaced, as Riddle
already knew how to make a Horcrux, and had feigned innocence
in order to find out what might happen if a wizard made more than
one). Slughorn became ill with guilt and fright. Albus Dumbledore,
now Headmaster, treated his colleague with particular kindness at
this time, which had the paradoxical effect of increasing Slughorn’s
guilt, reinforcing his determination never to tell a living soul what a
dreadful mistake he had made.
Lord Voldemort made no attempt to seize Hogwarts on his
first ascent to power. Slughorn believed, correctly, that he was
safest remaining in his post rather than risking the outside world
while Voldemort was at large. When Voldemort met his match upon
attacking the infant Harry Potter, Slughorn was even more jubilant
than most of the wizarding population. If Voldemort had been
killed, Slughorn reasoned, then he could not have made a Horcrux,
which meant that he, Slughorn, was innocent after all. It was
’

Slughorn’s extremity of relief, and the disjointed phrases he let fall
in the first rush of emotion after hearing of Voldemort’s defeat, that
first alerted Dumbledore to the possibility that Slughorn had shared
Dark secrets with Tom Riddle. Dumbledore’s gentle attempts to
question Slughorn, however, caused him to clam up. A few days
later, Slughorn (who had now completed a half century of service to
the school) tendered his resignation.

Retirement
Horace intended to enjoy a delightful retirement, free from the
cares of teaching and the burden of guilt and fear that had been
with him for years. He returned to the comfortable home of his
parents (now dead), where he had enjoyed school holidays, now
taking up permanent residence.
For nearly a decade, Slughorn enjoyed his well-stocked cellar
and library, paying occasional visits to old members of the Slug
Club, and hosting reunion feasts at his home. He missed teaching,
however, and occasionally felt a sad chill at the thought that the
famous faces of tomorrow were now passing through Hogwarts
without the slightest knowledge of who he was.
About a decade into Slughorn’s retirement, word reached him
through his extensive contacts that Lord Voldemort was still alive,
although in some disembodied form. This, of all the news in the
world, was what Slughorn most feared, for it suggested that his
deepest dread had been well founded; that Voldemort lived on, in
some fragmented spectral form, because his younger self had
successfully created one or more Horcruxes.
Slughorn’s retirement now became a fraught affair. Sleepless
and frightened, he asked himself whether he had been wise to leave
Hogwarts, where Voldemort had previously feared to invade, and
where Dumbledore would surely be well informed about what was
going on.

Hiding
Shortly after the conclusion of the Triwizard Tournament at
Hogwarts (which Slughorn had been following with rapt attention
in the press), the wizarding world erupted with fresh rumours.
Harry Potter had survived the competition under dubious
circumstances, returning to the Hogwarts grounds clutching the
body of a fellow competitor, whom he claimed had been killed by a
reborn Voldemort.
While Harry’s story was widely dismissed by both the Ministry
of Magic and the wizarding press, Horace Slughorn believed it.
Confirmation came three nights after the death of Cedric Diggory,
when the Death Eater Corban Yaxley arrived at Slughorn’s house
under cover of night, clearly intending to recruit him, or take him
by force to Voldemort.
Slughorn reacted with a speed that would have astounded
those who had watched him grow slower and fatter through the
years of his retirement. Transfiguring himself into an armchair, he
successfully evaded Yaxley’s detection. Once the Death Eater had
left, Slughorn packed a few necessities into a bag, locked up his
house behind him, and went on the run.
For over a year, Slughorn moved from house to house, often
squatting in Muggle dwellings when the owners were away, because
he did not dare stay with friends who might subsequently betray –
whether willingly or under duress – his whereabouts. It was a
miserable existence, made still more wretched by the fact that he
did not know precisely what Voldemort wanted from him. He
thought it most likely that his old student simply wanted to recruit
him to his army, which was still small compared to what it had been
at the height of his previous power; in his darkest moments,

however, Slughorn wondered whether Voldemort did want to kill
him, to prevent him ever betraying the source of the latter’s
continuing invulnerability.

Later Teaching Career
Though Slughorn’s charms and hexes kept him a few steps ahead of
the Death Eaters, they were insufficient to keep him concealed from
Albus Dumbledore, who finally ran him to ground in the village of
Budleigh Babberton, where Slughorn had commandeered a Muggle
dwelling. The Headmaster was not fooled by the disguise that had
hoodwinked Yaxley, and asked Slughorn to return to Hogwarts as a
teacher. As an added inducement, Dumbledore had brought along
Harry Potter, whom Slughorn now met for the first time: the most
famous student Hogwarts had ever seen, he was also the son of one
of Slughorn’s all-time favourite students, Lily Evans.
Although initially resistant, Slughorn could not resist the
combined allure of a safe place of residence and of Harry himself,
who had a glamour that exceeded even Tom Riddle’s. Slughorn
suspected that Dumbledore might have a further motive, but was
confident that he could resist Dumbledore’s attempts to wheedle
out of him any assistance he might have given Lord Voldemort. He
armed himself against this eventuality by preparing a fake ‘memory’
of the night that Riddle had approached him with a request to be
taught about Horcruxes.
Slughorn resumed his post as Potions master at Hogwarts with
gusto, once again instituting the Slug Club and attempting to collect
all the most talented or well-connected students of the day. As
Dumbledore had expected and intended, Slughorn was captivated
by Harry Potter, whom he believed (erroneously) to be supremely
talented in his own subject. Harry finally succeeded in prising from
Slughorn the true memory of his Horcrux conversation with
Riddle, after using Slughorn’s own potion against him: Felix Felicis,
which made Harry irresistibly lucky.

Hogwarts under Death Eater Rule
Once the school had been taken over by Lord Voldemort, with
Severus Snape as Headmaster and the Death Eater Carrows taking
key roles in subjugating staff and pupils, Slughorn learned that
Voldemort had nothing worse in store for him than to remain in
post and teach pure- and half-bloods. This he did, keeping his
profile as low as he dared, though never enforcing the violent
discipline advocated by the Carrows, and attempting to look after
the students in his care as best he could.

The Battle of Hogwarts
Slughorn’s behaviour during the most dangerous night of his life
reveals the worth of the man. Initially he appeared to have escaped
the fight, having led the Slytherins out of the castle to safety. Once
in Hogsmeade, however, he helped to rouse and mobilise the
villagers, returning with Charlie Weasley at the head of
reinforcements at a crucial point in the battle. What is more, he was
one of the last three (with Minerva McGonagall and Kingsley
Shacklebolt) to duel Voldemort before the latter’s final
confrontation with Harry. Slughorn sought redemption in these
selfless acts of courage, risking his life against his erstwhile pupil.
Slughorn’s genuine remorse for the damage he had done in
telling Riddle what he wanted to know is conclusive proof that he is
not, and never was, Death Eater material. A little weak, a little lazy
and certainly snobbish, Slughorn is nevertheless kind-hearted, with
a fully functional conscience. In his final test, Slughorn revealed
himself to be implacably opposed to the Dark Arts. When his
bravery at the Battle of Hogwarts was publicised, his actions (along
with those of Regulus Black, which gained attention in the
aftermath of Voldemort’s demise) removed much of the stigma that
had been attached to Slytherin house for hundreds of years past.
Though now (permanently) retired, his portrait has a place of
honour in the Slytherin common room.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Quintus Horatius Flaccus was one of the greatest Roman Poets,
more commonly known as Horace. He gave Slughorn two of his
Christian names. The name ‘Slughorn’ derives from the (Scots)
Gaelic for ‘war cry’: sluagh-ghairm, which later gave rise to
‘slughorn’, a battle trumpet. I loved the word for its look and sound,
but also for its many associations. The original Gaelic suggests a
hidden ferocity, whereas the corrupted word seems to allude to the
feeler of the Arion distinctus (or common land slug), which works
well for such a seemingly sedentary, placid man. ‘Horn’ also hints at
his trumpeting of famous names and illustrious associations.

Horace Slughorn was one of the most gifted Potion makers that
Hogwarts had ever seen. Like Severus Snape, he had the power to
bottle fame, brew glory, and even stopper death, but what makes
a truly talented Potions master? According to J.K. Rowling, you
need more than just a cauldron and the right ingredients to whip
up a winning concoction.

‌ OTIONS
P
BY J.K. ROWLING
It is often asked whether a Muggle could create a magic potion,
given a Potions book and the right ingredients. The answer,
unfortunately, is no. There is always some element of wandwork
necessary to make a potion (merely adding dead flies and asphodel
to a pot hanging over a fire will give you nothing but nasty-tasting,
not to mention poisonous, soup).
Some potions duplicate the effects of spells and charms, but a
few (for instance, the Polyjuice Potion and Felix Felicis) have effects
impossible to achieve any other way. Generally speaking, witches
and wizards favour whichever method they find easiest, or most
satisfying, to produce their chosen end.
Potions are not for the impatient, but their effects are usually
difficult to undo by any but another skilled potioneer. This branch
of magic carries a certain mystique and therefore status. There is
also the dark cachet of handling substances that are highly
dangerous. The popular idea of a Potions expert within the
wizarding community is of a brooding, slow-burning personality:
Snape, in fact, conforms perfectly to the stereotype.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Chemistry was my least favourite subject at school, and I gave it up
as soon as I could. Naturally, when I was trying to decide which
subject Harry’s arch-enemy, Severus Snape, should teach, it had to
be the wizarding equivalent. This makes it all the stranger that I
found Snape’s introduction to his subject quite compelling (‘I can
teach you to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death…’),
apparently part of me found Potions quite as interesting as Snape
did; and indeed I always enjoyed creating potions in the books, and
researching ingredients for them.
Many of the components of the various draughts and libations
that Harry creates for Snape exist (or were once believed to exist)
and have (or were believed to have) the properties I gave them.
Dittany, for instance, really does have healing properties (it is an
anti-inflammatory, although I would not advise Splinching yourself
to test it); a bezoar really is a mass taken from the intestines of an
animal, and it really was once believed that drinking water in which
a bezoar was placed could cure you of poisoning.

You can hunt down dittany or find a bezoar in the real world,
but you’d be hard pressed to track down a Bicorn horn – one of
the key ingredients in Polyjuice Potion. This appearance-altering
potion is undeniably powerful, whether used for good or evil; but
what is the meaning behind each of the ingredients in the
mixture, and why is Hermione’s ability to brew it as a secondyear student so remarkable?

POLYJUICE POTION
BY J.K. ROWLING
The Polyjuice Potion, which is a complex and time-consuming
concoction, is best left to highly skilled witches and wizards. It
enables the consumer to assume the physical appearance of another
person, as long as they have first procured part of that individual’s
body to add to the brew (this may be anything – toenail clippings,
dandruff or worse – but it is most usual to use hair). The idea that a
witch or wizard might make evil use of parts of the body is an
ancient one, and exists in the folklore and superstitions of many
cultures.
The effect of the potion is only temporary, and depending on
how well it has been brewed, may last anything from between ten
minutes and twelve hours. You can change age, sex and race by
taking the Polyjuice Potion, but not species.
The fact that Hermione is able to make a competent Polyjuice
Potion at the age of twelve is testimony to her outstanding magical
ability, because it is a potion that many adult witches and wizards
fear to attempt.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
I remember creating the full list of ingredients for the Polyjuice
Potion. Each one was carefully selected. Lacewing flies (the first
part of the name suggested an intertwining or binding together of
two identities); leeches (to suck the essence out of one and into the
other); horn of a Bicorn (the idea of duality); knotgrass (another
hint of being tied to another person); fluxweed (the mutability of
the body as it changed into another) and Boomslang skin (a shedded
outer body and a new inner).
The name Polyjuice was supposed to make several allusions.
‘Poly’, meaning ‘many’, gave the idea that the potion could turn you
into lots of different people; but ‘Polyjuice’ is also very near
‘Polydeuces’, who was a twin in Greek mythology.

If you’re going to cook up a goblet full of Polyjuice, or any other
vile-tasting but powerful brew, you’re going to need a cauldron.
Here’s a little history of this vital piece of magical equipment.

‌ AULDRONS
C
BY J.K. ROWLING
Cauldrons were once used by Muggles and wizards alike, being
large metal cooking pots that could be suspended over fires. In
time, magical and non-magical people alike moved on to stoves;
saucepans became more convenient and cauldrons became the sole
province of witches and wizards, who continued to brew potions in
them. A naked flame is essential for the making of potions, which
makes cauldrons the most practical pot of all.
All cauldrons are enchanted to make them lighter to carry, as
they are most commonly made of pewter or iron. Modern
inventions include the self-stirring and collapsible varieties of
cauldron, and pots of precious metal are also available for the
specialist, or the show-off.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Cauldrons have had a magical association for centuries. They
appear in hundreds of years’ worth of pictures of witches, and are
also supposed to be where leprechauns keep treasure. Many folk
and fairy tales make mention of cauldrons with special powers, but
in the Harry Potter books they are a fairly mundane tool. I did
consider making Helga Hufflepuff’s hallow a cauldron, but there
was something slightly comical and incongruous about having such
a large and heavy Horcrux; I wanted the objects Harry had to find
to be smaller and more portable. However, a cauldron appears both
in the four mythical jewels of Ireland (its magical power was that
nobody ever went away from it unsatisfied) and in the legend of
The Thirteen Treasures of Britain (the cauldron of Dyrnwch the
giant would cook meat for brave men, but not for cowards).

The job of Potions master is not without risks, but it is the
Defence Against the Dark Arts post that is the most dangerous.
Of all the memorable DADA teachers who passed through
Hogwarts, it might have been easy to forget quiet Professor
Quirinus Quirrell, were it not for the fact that he turned out to
have Voldemort on the back of his head. Here’s a little extra
information on the man who made a rather unconventional exit
from his position at Hogwarts.

QUIRINUS QUIRRELL
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

26th September
WAND:

Alder and unicorn hair, nine inches long, bendy
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Ravenclaw
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Learned in the theory of Defensive Magic, less adept in the
practice
PARENTAGE:

Half-blood
FAMILY:

Unmarried, no children
HOBBIES:

Travel, pressing wild flowers
Harry’s first Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher is a clever
young wizard who took a ‘Grand Tour’ around the world before
taking up his teaching post at Hogwarts. When Harry first meets

Quirrell, he has adopted a turban for everyday wear. His nerves,
expressed most obviously in his stammer, are so pronounced that it
is rumoured the turban is stuffed full of garlic, to ward off
vampires.
I saw Quirrell as a gifted but delicate boy, who would probably
have been teased for his timidity and nerves during his school life.
Feeling inadequate and wishing to prove himself, he developed an
(initially theoretical) interest in the Dark Arts. Like many people
who feel themselves to be insignificant, even laughable, Quirrell had
a latent desire to make the world sit up and notice him.
Quirrell set out deliberately to find whatever remained of the
Dark wizard, partly out of curiosity, partly out of that
unacknowledged desire for importance. At the very least, Quirrell
fantasised that he could be the man who tracked Voldemort down,
but at best, might learn skills from Voldemort that would ensure he
was never laughed at again.
Though Hagrid was correct in saying that Quirrell had a
‘brilliant mind’, the Hogwarts teacher was both naive and arrogant
in thinking that he would be able to control an encounter with
Voldemort, even in the Dark wizard’s weakened state. When
Voldemort realised that the young man had a position at Hogwarts,
he took immediate possession of Quirrell, who was incapable of
resisting.
While Quirrell did not lose his soul, he became completely
subjugated by Voldemort, who caused a frightful mutation of
Quirrell’s body: now Voldemort looked out of the back of Quirrell’s
head and directed his movements, even forcing him to attempt
murder. Quirrell tried to put up feeble resistance on occasion, but
Voldemort was far too strong for him.
Quirrell is, in effect, turned into a temporary Horcrux by
Voldemort. He is greatly depleted by the physical strain of fighting
the far stronger, evil soul inside him. Quirrell’s body manifests
burns and blisters during his fight with Harry due to the protective
power Harry’s mother left in his skin when she died for him. When

the body Voldemort and Quirrell are sharing is horribly burned by
contact with Harry, the former flees just in time to save himself,
leaving the damaged and enfeebled Quirrell to collapse and die.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Quirinus was a Roman God about whom there is not much
information, although he is commonly associated with war – a clue
that Quirrell is not quite as meek as he appears. ‘Quirrell’, which is
so nearly ‘squirrel’ – small, cute and harmless – also suggested
‘quiver,’ a nod to the character’s innate nervousness.

We’ve covered power and politics in the wizarding world sensibly
and thoroughly. But to end on something altogether more
uplifting, let’s take a look at the potent presence of Peeves the
poltergeist. If there were an unpopularity contest among the staff
and students of Hogwarts, surely Peeves would at least be a
finalist in the ‘nuisance’ category?

PEEVES THE POLTERGEIST
BY J.K. ROWLING
The name ‘poltergeist’ is German in origin, and roughly translates
as ‘noisy ghost’, although it is not, strictly speaking, a ghost at all.
The poltergeist is an invisible entity that moves objects, slams doors
and creates other audible, kinetic disturbances. It has been reported
in many cultures and there is a strong association with the places
where young people, especially adolescents, are living. Explanations
for the phenomenon vary all the way from supernatural to
scientific.
It was inevitable that, in a building bursting with teenage
witches and wizards, a poltergeist would be generated; it was
likewise to be expected that such a poltergeist would be noisier,
more destructive and harder to expel than those that occasionally
frequent Muggle houses. Sure enough, Peeves is the most notorious
and troublesome poltergeist in British history. Unlike the
overwhelming majority of his colleagues, Peeves has a physical
form, though he is able to become invisible at will. His looks reflect
his nature, which those who know him would agree is a seamless
blend of humour and malice.
Peeves is well-named, for he has been a pet peeve of every
Hogwarts caretaker from Hankerton Humble (appointed by the
four founders) onwards. Though many students and even teachers
have a somewhat perverse fondness for Peeves (he undoubtedly
adds a certain zest to school life), he is incurably disruptive, and it
generally falls to the caretaker of the day to clean up his many

deliberate messes: vases smashed, potions up-ended, bookcases
toppled and so on. Those with weak nerves deplore Peeves’s
fondness for suddenly materialising an inch from the end of their
noses, hiding in suits of armour or dropping solid objects on their
heads as they move between classes.
Several concerted efforts to remove Peeves from the castle have
resulted in failure. The last and most disastrous was made in 1876
by caretaker Rancorous Carpe, who devised an elaborate trap,
baited with an assortment of weapons he believed would be
irresistible to Peeves, and a vast enchanted bell jar, reinforced by
various Containment Charms, which he intended to drop over the
poltergeist once he was in place. Not only did Peeves break easily
through the giant bell jar, showering an entire corridor with broken
glass, he also escaped the trap armed with several cutlasses,
crossbows, a blunderbuss and a miniature cannon. The castle was
evacuated while Peeves amused himself by firing randomly out of
the windows and threatening all and sundry with death. A threeday standoff was ended when the Headmistress of the day, Eupraxia
Mole, agreed to sign a contract allowing Peeves additional
privileges, such as a once-weekly swim in the boys’ toilets on the
ground floor, first refusal on stale bread from the kitchen for
throwing purposes, and a new hat – to be custom-made by Madame
Bonhabille of Paris. Rancorous Carpe took early retirement for
health reasons, and no subsequent attempt has ever been made to
rid the castle of its most ill-disciplined inhabitant.
Peeves does recognise authority of a sort. Though generally
unimpressed by titles and badges, he is generally amenable to the
strictures of the teachers, agreeing to stay out of their classrooms
while they teach. He has also been known to show an affinity for
rare students (notably Fred and George Weasley), and is certainly
afraid of the ghost of Slytherin, the Bloody Baron. His true loyalties,
however, were revealed in the Great Battle of Hogwarts.

So there you have it. You’ve discovered what happens when
power goes to someone’s head (quite literally, in Professor
Quirrell’s case), which witch clawed her way to power while
simultaneously collecting Frolicsome Feline plates, and where the
power-hungry and corrupt end up when caught.
We hope you’ve enjoyed this collection of J.K. Rowling’s writing,
presented by Pottermore.

‌

Digital Editions also published by Pottermore
Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Parts One and Two
Based on an original new story by J.K. Rowling, John Tiffany and Jack Thorne
A new play by Jack Thorne

Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous
Hobbies
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky
Poltergeists
Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide

‌

Discover even more of
J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World...
Visit www.pottermore.com, where your own Sorting Ceremony,
exclusive new writing by J.K. Rowling and all the latest news and
features from the Wizarding World awaits.
Pottermore, the digital publishing, e-commerce, entertainment and
news company from J.K. Rowling, is the global digital publisher of
Harry Potter and J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World. As the digital
heart of J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World, pottermore.com is
dedicated to unlocking the power of imagination. It offers news,
features, and articles as well as new and previously unreleased
writing by J.K. Rowling.

All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher
This edition first published by Pottermore Limited in 2016
Text © J.K. Rowling
Cover design and interior illustrations by MinaLima © Pottermore Limited
Harry Potter characters, names and related indicia are trademarks of and © Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
J.K. ROWLING’S WIZARDING WORLD TM J.K. Rowling and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
The moral right of the author has been asserted
ISBN 978-1-78110-629-7

