The digital heart
of the Wizarding World

www.pottermore.com

CONTENTS
CHAPTER ONE
Minerva McGonagall
Animagi
CHAPTER TWO
Remus Lupin
Werewolves
CHAPTER THREE
Sybill Trelawney
Naming Seers
CHAPTER FOUR
Silvanus Kettleburn

FROM THE POTTERMORE EDITOR:

The wizarding world can be a dark and dangerous place. There
are spells that can kill in six syllables, potions that can rob
someone of free will and magical beasts that can tear even the
bravest wizard limb from limb. That’s what makes valiant acts
of heroism more powerful and more necessary.
Having a wand in hand can instil courage, but magic isn’t the
only thing you need in the wizarding world to make brave
choices. In this collection of writing by J.K. Rowling, you will
read about the love, grief and enduring dignity of Minerva
McGonagall, the tragic fate of Remus Lupin, the reckless
behaviour of one Silvanus Kettleburn, and so much more.

Minerva McGonagall is many things: gifted witch, stern
Hogwarts professor, lifelong Quidditch enthusiast and occasional
tabby cat. If there’s one thing she’s not, it’s an open book. There’s
really no better way to get to know someone than hearing about
their parents, their childhood, their first love, and their
stubbornly held grudges. So it’s with great joy we follow J.K.
Rowling’s writing back to the Scottish Highlands, where we can
glimpse McGonagall’s life as she found joy, friendship, magic
and a job at Hogwarts.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

4th October
WAND:

Fir and dragon heartstring, nine and a half inches, stiff
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Gryffindor
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Animagus (distinctively marked silver tabby cat)
PARENTAGE:

Muggle father, witch mother
FAMILY:

Husband Elphinstone Urquart, deceased, no children
HOBBIES:

Needlework, correcting articles in Transfiguration Today, watching
Quidditch, supporting the Montrose Magpies

Childhood
Minerva McGonagall was the first child, and only daughter, of a
Scottish Presbyterian minister and a Hogwarts-educated witch. She
grew up in the Highlands of Scotland in the early twentieth century,
and only gradually became aware that there was something strange,
both about her own abilities, and her parents’ marriage.
Minerva’s father, the Reverend Robert McGonagall, had
become captivated by the high-spirited Isobel Ross, who lived in the
same village. Like his neighbours, Robert believed that Isobel
attended a select ladies’ boarding school in England. In fact, when
Isobel vanished from her home for months at a time, it was to
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry that she went.
Aware that her parents (a witch and wizard) would frown on a
connection with the serious young Muggle, Isobel kept their
burgeoning relationship a secret. By the time she was eighteen, she
had fallen in love with Robert. Unfortunately, she had not found the
courage to tell him what she was.
The couple eloped, to the fury of both sets of parents. Now
estranged from her family, Isobel could not bring herself to mar the
bliss of the honeymoon by telling her smitten new husband that she
had graduated top of her class in Charms at Hogwarts, nor that she
had been Captain of the school Quidditch team. Isobel and Robert
moved into a manse (minister’s house) on the outskirts of
Caithness, where the beautiful Isobel proved surprisingly adept at
making the most of the minister’s tiny salary.
The birth of the young couple’s first child, Minerva, proved
both a joy and a crisis. Missing her family, and the magical
community she had given up for love, Isobel insisted on naming her
newborn daughter after her own grandmother, an immensely
talented witch. The outlandish name raised eyebrows in the
community in which she lived, and the Reverend Robert
McGonagall found it difficult to explain his wife’s choice to his
parishioners. Furthermore, he was alarmed by his wife’s moodiness.

Friends assured him that women were often emotional after the
birth of a baby, and that Isobel would soon be herself again.
Isobel, however, became more and more withdrawn, often
secluding herself with Minerva for days at a time. Isobel later told
her daughter that she had displayed small, but unmistakable, signs
of magic from her earliest hours. Toys that had been left on upper
shelves were found in her cot. The family cat appeared to do her
bidding before she could talk. Her father’s bagpipes were
occasionally heard to play themselves from distant rooms, a
phenomenon that made the infant Minerva chuckle.
Isobel was torn between pride and fear. She knew that she must
confess the truth to Robert before he witnessed something that
would alarm him. At last, in response to Robert’s patient
questioning, Isobel burst into tears, retrieved her wand from the
locked box under her bed, and showed him what she was.
Although Minerva was too young to remember that night, its
aftermath left her with a bitter understanding of the complications
of growing up with magic in a Muggle world. Although Robert
McGonagall loved his wife no less upon discovering that she was a
witch, he was profoundly shocked by her revelation, and by the fact
that she had kept such a secret from him for so long. What was
more, he, who prided himself on being an upright and honest man,
was now drawn into a life of secrecy that was quite foreign to his
nature. Isobel explained, through her sobs, that she (and their
daughter) were bound by the International Statute of Secrecy, and
that they must conceal the truth about themselves, or face the fury
of the Ministry of Magic. Robert also quailed at the thought of how
the locals – in the main, an austere, straight-laced and conventional
breed – would feel about having a witch as their minister’s wife.
Love endured, but trust had been broken between her parents,
and Minerva, a clever and observant child, saw this with sadness.
Two more children, both sons, were born to the McGonagalls, and
both, in due course, revealed magical ability. Minerva helped her
mother explain to Malcolm and Robert Junior that they must not

flaunt their magic, and aided her mother in concealing from their
father the accidents and embarrassments their magic sometimes
caused.
Minerva was very close to her Muggle father, whom in
temperament she resembled more than her mother. She saw with
pain how much he struggled with the family’s strange situation. She
sensed, too, how much of a strain it was for her mother to fit in
with the all-Muggle village, and how much she missed the freedom
of being with her kind, and of exercising her considerable talents.
Minerva never forgot how much her mother cried, when the letter
of admittance into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry
arrived on Minerva’s eleventh birthday; she knew that Isobel was
sobbing, not only out of pride, but also out of envy.

School Career
As is often the case where the young witch or wizard comes from a
family who has struggled with its magical identity, Hogwarts was,
for Minerva McGonagall, a place of joyful release and freedom.
Minerva drew unusual attention to herself on her very first
evening, when she was revealed to be a Hatstall. After five and a half
minutes, the Sorting Hat, which had been vacillating between the
houses of Ravenclaw and Gryffindor, placed Minerva in the latter.
(In later years, this circumstance was a subject of gentle humour
between Minerva and her colleague Filius Flitwick, over whom the
Sorting Hat suffered the same confusion, but reached the opposite
conclusion. The two Heads of House were amused to think that
they might, but for those crucial moments in their youths, have
exchanged positions).
Minerva was quickly recognised as the most outstanding
student of her year, with a particular talent for Transfiguration. As
she progressed through the school, she demonstrated that she had
inherited both her mother’s talents and her father’s cast-iron moral
sense. Minerva’s school career overlapped by two years with that of
Pomona Sprout, later Head of Hufflepuff House, and the two
women enjoyed an excellent relationship both then, and in later
years.
By the end of her education at Hogwarts, Minerva McGonagall
had achieved an impressive record: top grades in O.W.L.s and
N.E.W.T.s, Prefect, Head Girl, and winner of the Transfiguration
Today Most Promising Newcomer award. Under the guidance of
her inspirational Transfiguration teacher, Albus Dumbledore, she
had managed to become an Animagus; her animal form, with its
distinctive markings (tabby cat, square spectacles markings around
)

’

eyes) were duly logged in the Ministry of Magic’s Animagus
Registry. Minerva was also, like her mother, a gifted Quidditch
player, although a nasty fall in her final year (a foul during the
Gryffindor versus Slytherin game which would decide the Cup
winner) left her with concussion, several broken ribs and a lifelong
desire to see Slytherin crushed on the Quidditch pitch. Though she
gave up Quidditch on leaving Hogwarts, the innately competitive
Professor McGonagall later took a keen interest in the fortunes of
her house team, and retained a keen eye for Quidditch talent.

Early Heartbreak
Upon graduation from Hogwarts, Minerva returned to the manse
to enjoy one last summer with her family before setting out for
London, where she had been offered a position at the Ministry of
Magic (Department of Magical Law Enforcement). These months
were to prove some of the most difficult of Minerva’s life, for it was
then, aged only eighteen, that she proved herself truly her mother’s
daughter, by falling head-over-heels in love with a Muggle boy.
It was the first and only time in Minerva McGonagall’s life that
she might have been said to lose her head. Dougal McGregor was
the handsome, clever and funny son of a local farmer. Though less
beautiful than Isobel, Minerva was clever and witty. Dougal and
Minerva shared a sense of humour, argued fiercely, and suspected
mysterious depths in each other. Before either of them knew it,
Dougal was on one knee in a ploughed field, proposing, and
Minerva was accepting him.
She went home, intending to tell her parents of her
engagement, yet found herself unable to do so. All that night she lay
awake, thinking about her future. Dougal did not know what she,
Minerva, truly was, any more than her father had known the truth
about Isobel before they had married. Minerva had witnessed at
close quarters the kind of marriage she might have if she wed
Dougal. It would be the end of all her ambitions; it would mean a
wand locked away, and children taught to lie, perhaps even to their
own father. She did not fool herself that Dougal McGregor would
accompany her to London, while she went to work every day at the
Ministry. He was looking forward to inheriting his father’s farm.
Early next morning, Minerva slipped from her parents’ house
and went to tell Dougal that she had changed her mind, and could

not marry him. Mindful of the fact that if she broke the
International Statute of Secrecy, she would lose the job at the
Ministry for which she was giving him up, she could give him no
good reason for her change of heart. She left him devastated, and
set out for London three days later.

Ministry Career
Though undoubtedly her feelings for the Ministry of Magic were
coloured by the fact that she had recently suffered an emotional
crisis, Minerva McGonagall did not much enjoy her new home and
workplace. Some of her co-workers had an engrained anti-Muggle
bias that, given her adoration of her Muggle father, and her
continuing love for Dougal McGregor, she deplored. Though a
most efficient and gifted employee, and fond of her much older
boss, Elphinstone Urquart, Minerva was unhappy in London, and
found that she missed Scotland. Finally, after two years at the
Ministry, she was offered a prestigious promotion, yet found herself
turning it down. She sent an owl to Hogwarts, asking whether she
might be considered for a teaching post. The owl returned within
hours, offering her a job in the Transfiguration department, under
Head of Department, Albus Dumbledore.

Friendship with Albus Dumbledore
The school greeted Minerva McGonagall’s return with delight.
Minerva threw herself into her work, proving herself a strict but
inspirational teacher. If she kept letters from Dougal McGregor
locked in a box under her bed, this was (she told herself firmly)
better than keeping her wand locked there. Nevertheless, it was a
shock to learn from the oblivious Isobel (in the middle of a chatty
letter of local news) that Dougal had married the daughter of
another farmer.
Albus Dumbledore discovered Minerva in tears in her
classroom, late that evening, and she confessed the whole story to
him. Albus Dumbledore offered both comfort and wisdom, and told
Minerva some of his own family history, previously unknown to
her. The confidences exchanged that night between two intensely
private and reserved characters were to form the basis of a lasting
mutual esteem and friendship.
Minerva McGonagall was one of only a handful of people who
knew, or suspected, how dreadful a moment it was for Albus
Dumbledore when, in 1945, he made the decision to confront and
defeat the Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald.

Voldemort’s First Rise
Minerva McGonagall did not teach the young Tom Riddle, but she
was privy to Dumbledore’s fears and suspicions about him. Minerva
was not inducted into the Order of the Phoenix during Voldemort’s
first climb to power (at that time the Order of the Phoenix was seen
as a renegade outfit by the Ministry; successive Ministers feared
Dumbledore’s charisma and magical talent, and were inclined to
harbour fears that he wished to succeed them). Minerva’s abilities as
an Animagus were to prove useful in these dark periods of
wizarding history, however, and unbeknownst to her students she
spent many nights spying for the Ministry in the guise of a tabby
cat, bringing the Aurors crucial information on the activities of
Voldemort’s followers.
Like most of the magical community she suffered personal
bereavements during the first period of Voldemort’s power. Among
the worst were the loss of her brother, Robert; two of her favourite
students, Lily Evans and James Potter; and Dougal McGregor, who
was murdered, along with his wife and children, in a random antiMuggle attack by the Death Eaters. This last news was a terrible
blow to Minerva, who asked herself whether she might not have
been able to save Dougal’s life had she married him.

Marriage
Through all her early years at Hogwarts, Minerva McGonagall
remained on terms of friendship with her old boss at the Ministry,
Elphinstone Urquart. He came to visit her while on holiday to
Scotland, and to her great surprise and embarrassment, proposed
marriage in Madam Puddifoot’s teashop. Still in love with Dougal
McGregor, Minerva turned him down.
Elphinstone, however, had never ceased to love her, nor to
propose every now and then, even though she continued to refuse
him. The death of Dougal McGregor, however, although traumatic,
seemed to free Minerva. Shortly after Voldemort’s first defeat,
Elphinstone, now white-haired, proposed again during a
summertime stroll around the lake in the Hogwarts grounds. This
time Minerva accepted. Elphinstone, now retired, was beside
himself with joy, and purchased a small cottage in Hogsmeade for
the pair of them, whence Minerva could travel easily to work every
day.
Known to successive generations of students as ‘Professor
McGonagall,’ Minerva – always something of a feminist –
announced that she would be keeping her own name upon
marriage. Traditionalists sniffed – why was Minerva refusing to
accept a pure-blood name, and keeping that of her Muggle father?
The marriage (cut tragically short, though it was destined to be)
was a very happy one. Though they had no children of their own,
Minerva’s nieces and nephews (children of her brothers Malcolm
and Robert) were frequent visitors to their home. This was a period
of great fulfillment for Minerva.
The accidental death of Elphinstone from a Venomous
Tentacula bite, three years into their marriage, was an enormous

sorrow to all who knew the couple. Minerva could not bear to
remain alone in their cottage, but packed her things after
Elphinstone’s funeral and returned to her sparse stone-floored
bedroom in Hogwarts Castle, accessible through a concealed door
in the wall of her first-floor study. Always a very brave and private
person, she poured all her energies into her work, and few people –
excepting perhaps Albus Dumbledore – ever realised how much she
suffered.

Second Wizarding War
By the time of the second wizarding war, Minerva was no longer
prepared to act as a spy for a Ministry she believed had become
corrupt and dangerous. Her attitude was undoubtedly hardened by
the intrusion at Hogwarts of Dolores Jane Umbridge, a Ministry
inspector and Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, with whom
Minerva clashed more violently than with any other colleague in
her long and varied career. Following the confrontation with the
Death Eaters who had invaded Hogwarts at the time of Albus
Dumbledore’s death, Minerva became a fully fledged member of the
Order of the Phoenix, which was now, more than ever, seen as an
outlaw organisation.
Following the promotion of Severus Snape to Headmaster,
after her temporary stewardship of the school, Minerva
McGonagall remained in post to protect the students as best she
could from the malicious attentions of the Carrows, the Death
Eater teachers imposed upon the school by Lord Voldemort. In
spite of her well-known loyalty to Professor Dumbledore,
Voldemort and his followers believed that Minerva was both too
gifted to lose, and too sensible not to join them fully once their
victory was assured.
In this, however, they were quite mistaken, and Minerva
McGonagall’s actions during the famous Battle of Hogwarts proved
that her allegiance to the Order of the Phoenix had never wavered.
She was one of the last to duel Voldemort before his death, an
encounter she survived, and she subsequently became a successful
and inspirational Headmistress of the school she had served so long
and well. Minerva McGonagall was later awarded the Order of
Merlin, First Class, by the new Minister for Magic, Kingsley

Shacklebolt, and shortly afterwards appeared on a card in the
Chocolate Frog Famous Witches and Wizards series, an accolade
she admitted she had never imagined receiving.

Relationship with Harry Potter
Minerva McGonagall was not immune to a secret amusement at the
antics of rule-breakers. Nevertheless, she frequently questioned
Dumbledore’s policy of allowing Harry to run extreme risks, and
bend many school rules, during his adolescence, often showing
herself to be more protective of Harry than the then Headmaster.
Harry had a claim on Minerva’s affections, not only because he was
the son of two of her all-time favourite students, but because he,
like herself, had suffered serious bereavements. Although she
neither spoiled nor favoured Harry when he was her student, she
revealed the depth of her trust in him during the Battle of
Hogwarts, at which time she supported him unequivocally even
though she had never been fully in his or Dumbledore’s confidence.
Following a private conversation with Harry, Minerva
McGonagall later took the controversial decision to add a portrait
of Severus Snape to the gallery of old headmasters and
headmistresses in her tower office.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Minerva was the Roman goddess of warriors and wisdom. William
McGonagall is celebrated as the worst poet in British history. There
was something irresistible to me about his name, and the idea that
such a brilliant woman might be a distant relative of the buffoonish
McGonagall.
A small sample of his work will give a flavour of its
unintentional comedic value. The following was written as part of a
poem commemorating a Victorian railway disaster:
Beautiful Railway Bridge of the Sil’vry Tay!
Alas! I am very sorry to say
That ninety lives have been taken away
On the last Sabbath day of 1879,
Which will be remember’d for a very long time.

The first time we meet Professor McGonagall, she’s at the corner
of Privet Drive in the form of a tabby cat, reading a map. It’s
only when Dumbledore arrives that she Transfigures back into
her human form. This rare ability to switch between feline and
human form makes McGonagall an Animagus. Exactly how
arduous and particular is this type of magic? Let’s find out.

ANIMAGI
BY J.K. ROWLING
An Animagus is a witch or wizard who can transform at will into an
animal. While in their animal form, they retain most of their ability
to think as a human, their own sense of identity and their
memories. They will also retain normal human life expectancy,
even if they take their animal form for long periods of time.
However, feelings and emotions are simplified and they will have
many animal desires, feeding off whatever their animal body craves,
rather than demanding human food.
It is immensely difficult to change oneself into an Animagus
and the process, which is complex and time-consuming, can go
dramatically wrong. As a result, it is believed that fewer than one in
a thousand witches or wizards are Animagi.
An Animagus has a great potential advantage in the spheres of
espionage and crime. For this reason, an Animagus Registry exists
on which all Animagi are expected to log their personal details and
the precise appearance of their transformed self. It is usually the
case that distinctive markings or disabilities belonging to the
human body will transfer to the animal self. Failure to enter oneself
onto the Registry may result in a stretch in Azkaban.
When the process of becoming an Animagus goes wrong, it
often goes seriously wrong. Impatience with the long and
complicated process is generally at the root of such disasters, which
usually take the form of horrible half-human, half-animal
mutations. There is no known cure for such mistakes and those

who make them are often forced to live out their days in their
pitiable condition, being unable to become fully animal or fully
human.
Talent in both Transfiguration and Potions is necessary to
become an Animagus. No responsibility can be taken for any
physical or mental problems resulting from following these
instructions.
1. For the space of one entire month (from full moon to full moon),
a single leaf from a Mandrake must be carried constantly in the
mouth. The leaf must not be swallowed or taken out of the mouth
at any point. If the leaf is removed from the mouth, the process
must be started again.
2. Remove the leaf at the full moon and place it, steeped in your
saliva, in a small crystal phial that receives the pure rays of the
moon (if the night is cloudy, you will have to find a new Mandrake
leaf and begin the whole process again). To the moon-struck crystal
phial, add one of your own hairs, a silver teaspoon of dew collected
from a place that neither sunlight nor human feet have touched for
a full seven days, and the chrysalis of a Death’s-head Hawk Moth.
Put this mixture in a quiet, dark place and do not look at it or
otherwise disturb it until the next electrical storm.
3. While waiting for the storm, the following procedure should be
followed at sunrise and sundown. The tip of the wand should be
placed over the heart and the following incantation spoken: ‘Amato
Animo Animato Animagus.’
4. The wait for a storm may take weeks, months or even years.
During this time, the crystal phial should remain completely
undisturbed and untouched by sunlight. Contamination by sunlight
gives rise to the worst mutations. Resist the temptation to look at
your potion until lightning occurs. If you continue to repeat your
incantation at sunrise and sunset there will come a time when, with

the touch of the wand-tip to the chest, a second heartbeat may be
sensed, sometimes more powerful than the first, sometimes less so.
Nothing should be changed. The incantation should be uttered
without fail at the correct times, never omitting a single occasion.
5. Immediately upon the appearance of lightning in the sky, proceed
directly to the place where your crystal phial is hidden. If you have
followed all the preceding steps correctly, you will discover a
mouthful of blood-red potion inside it.
6. It is essential to move, at once, to a large, secure place where your
transformation cannot cause alarm or place you in physical danger.
Place your wand-tip against your heart, speak the incantation
‘Amato Animo Animato Animagus,’ and then drink the potion.
7. If all has gone correctly, you will feel a fiery pain and an intense
double heartbeat. Into your mind will come the shape of the
creature into which you are shortly to transform. You must show
no fear. It is too late, now, to escape the change you have willed.
8. The first transformation is usually uncomfortable and
frightening. Clothing and items such as glasses or jewellery meld to
the skin and become one with fur, scales or spikes. Do not resist
and do not panic or the animal mind may gain the ascendancy and
you could do something foolish, such as try to escape through a
window or charge a wall.
9. When your transformation is complete you should find yourself
physically comfortable. You are strongly advised to pick up your
wand at once, and hide it in a place of safekeeping, where you will
be able to find it when you regain a human form.
10. To return to a human form, visualise your human self as clearly
as you can. This should be sufficient, but do not panic if the
transformation does not occur immediately. With practice, you will

be able to slip in and out of your animal form at will, simply by
visualising the creature. Advanced Animagi can transform without
wands.
Generally wizards prefer to have their clothes Transfigure with
them, to escape the embarrassment of reappearing naked. However,
it is possible to leave clothes behind if one wishes to give the
impression of having gone for a bath or something similar. The
longer a witch or wizard has been an Animagus, the better they will
become at choosing the precise form of their transformations.
The animal into which one turns, if an Animagus, seems always
to be that which becomes the Patronus. There is no known instance
of the Animagus form changing to match the Patronus if the latter
changes, but the Animagus who can also produce a Patronus is
highly unusual and no study has ever been done on sufficient
numbers to draw firm conclusions.

Being an Animagus is a privilege – one that requires immense
skill and hard work. Being a werewolf, on the other hand, is
something that happens to witches and wizards against their will.
The life of a werewolf can be torturous and often lonely, as we
learned from Remus Lupin.
Find out about Lupin’s childhood, his love for Nymphadora
Tonks and the day he was bitten by Fenrir Greyback, and
discover why writing his biography saddened J.K. Rowling all
over again.

REMUS LUPIN
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

10th March
WAND:

Cypress and unicorn hair, ten and a quarter inches, pliable
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Gryffindor
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Exceptionally gifted in Defence Against the Dark Arts, werewolf
PATRONUS:

Wolf
PARENTAGE:

Wizard father, Muggle mother
FAMILY:

Wife Nymphadora Tonks, son Edward Remus (Teddy) Lupin

Parents

Remus Lupin was the only child of the wizard Lyall Lupin and his
Muggle wife Hope Howell.
Lyall Lupin was a very clever, rather shy young man who, by
the time he was thirty, had become a world-renowned authority on
Non-Human Spiritous Apparitions. These include poltergeists,
Boggarts and other strange creatures that, while sometimes
ghostlike in appearance and behaviour, have never been truly alive
and remain something of a mystery even to the wizarding world.
On an investigative trip into a dense Welsh forest in which a
particularly vicious Boggart was supposed to be lurking, Lyall ran
across his future wife. Hope Howell, a beautiful Muggle girl who
worked in an insurance office in Cardiff, had taken an ill-advised
walk through what she believed to be innocent woodland. Boggarts
and poltergeists may be sensed by Muggles, and Hope, a
particularly imaginative and sensitive person, had become
convinced that something was watching her from between the dark
trees. Eventually, her imagination became so overactive that the
Boggart assumed a form: that of a large, evil-looking man, bearing
down on her with a snarl and outstretched hands in the gloom.
Hearing her scream, young Lyall came sprinting through the trees,
causing the apparition to shrink into a field mushroom with one
wave of his wand. The terrified Hope thought, in her confusion,
that he had driven her would-be attacker away, and his first words
to her – ‘it’s all right, it was only a Boggart’ – made no impression
on her. Noticing how very beautiful she was, Lyall made the wise
decision not to talk about Boggarts any more, but instead agreed
that the man had been very big and scary, and that the only sensible
thing to do was for him to accompany Hope home to protect her.
The young couple fell in love, and not even Lyall’s shamefaced
admission, some months later, that Hope had never really been in
danger, dented her enthusiasm for him. To Lyall’s delight, Hope
accepted his proposal of marriage and threw herself enthusiastically
into preparations for the wedding, complete with a Boggart-topped
cake.
’

Lyall and Hope’s first and only child, Remus John, was born
after a year of marriage. A happy, healthy little boy, he showed early
signs of magic and both parents imagined that he would follow in
his father’s footsteps, attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry in due course.

Bitten
By the time that Remus was four years old, the amount of Dark
magical activity across the country was increasing steadily. While
few yet knew what lay behind the mounting attacks and sightings,
Lord Voldemort’s first ascent to power was in progress and Death
Eaters were recruiting all kinds of Dark creatures to join them in
their quest to overthrow the Ministry of Magic. The Ministry called
in the services of authorities on Dark creatures – even those as
minor as Boggarts and poltergeists – to help it understand and
contain the threat. Lyall Lupin was among those asked to join the
Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures,
which he did gladly. It was here that Lyall came face-to-face with a
werewolf called Fenrir Greyback, who had been brought in for
questioning about the death of two Muggle children.
The Werewolf Registry was badly maintained. Werewolves
were so shunned by wizarding society that they generally avoided
contact with other people; they lived in self-described ‘packs’ and
did all they could to avoid being registered. Greyback, whom the
Ministry did not know to be a werewolf, claimed to be nothing
more than a Muggle tramp who was utterly amazed at finding
himself in a room full of wizards, and horrified by the talk about
the poor, dead children.
Greyback’s filthy clothing and lack of wand were sufficient to
persuade two overworked and ignorant members of the
questioning committee that he was telling the truth, but Lyall Lupin
was not so easily fooled. He recognised certain telltale signs in
Greyback’s appearance and behaviour and told the committee that
Greyback ought to be kept in detention until the next full moon, a
mere twenty-four hours later.

Greyback sat in silence while Lyall was laughed at by his fellow
committee members (‘Lyall, you just stick to Welsh Boggarts, that’s
what you’re good at’). Lyall, generally a mild-mannered man, grew
angry. He described werewolves as ‘soulless, evil, deserving nothing
but death’. The committee ordered Lyall out of the room, the head
of the committee apologised to the Muggle tramp and Greyback
was released.
The wizard who escorted Greyback out of the inquiry was
intending to place a Memory Charm upon him, so that he would
forget having been inside the Ministry. Before he had a chance to
do so, he was overpowered by Greyback and two accomplices who
had been lurking at the entrance, and the three werewolves fled.
Greyback lost no time in sharing with his friends how Lyall
Lupin had just described them. Their revenge on the wizard who
thought that werewolves deserved nothing but death would be swift
and terrible.
Shortly before Remus Lupin’s fifth birthday, as he slept
peacefully in his bed, Fenrir Greyback forced open the boy’s
window and attacked him. Lyall reached the bedroom in time to
save his son’s life, driving Greyback out of the house with a number
of powerful curses. However, henceforth, Remus would be a fully
fledged werewolf.
Lyall Lupin never forgave himself for the words he had spoken
in front of Greyback at the inquiry: ‘soulless, evil, deserving nothing
but death’. He had parroted what was the common view of
werewolves in his community, but his son was what he had always
been – loveable and clever – except for that terrible period at the
full moon when he suffered an excruciating transformation and
became a danger to everyone around him. For many years, Lyall
kept the truth about the attack, including the identity of the
attacker, from his son, fearing Remus’s recriminations.

Childhood
Lyall did all he could to find a cure, but neither potions nor spells
could help his son. From this time onwards, the family’s lives were
dominated by the need to hide Remus’s condition. They uprooted
themselves from village to town, leaving the instant that rumours of
the boy’s odd behaviour started. Fellow witches and wizards
noticed how peaky Remus became as new moon approached, not to
mention his monthly disappearances. Remus was not allowed to
play with other children, in case he let slip the truth of his
condition. In consequence, and in spite of his loving parents, he was
a very lonely boy.
While Remus was small, his containment during his
transformation was not difficult; a locked room and plenty of
silencing spells usually sufficed. However, as he grew, so did his
wolfish self, and by the time he was ten years old, he was capable of
pounding down doors and smashing windows. Ever more powerful
spells were needed to contain him and both Hope and Lyall grew
thin with worry and fear. They adored their son, but they knew that
their community – already beset with fears at the mounting Dark
activity around them – would not be lenient on an uncontrolled
werewolf. The hopes that they had once had for their son seemed in
ruins, and Lyall educated Remus at home, certain that he would
never be able to set foot in school.
Shortly before Remus’s eleventh birthday, no less a person than
Albus Dumbledore, Headmaster of Hogwarts, arrived uninvited on
the Lupins’ doorstep. Flustered and frightened, Lyall and Hope tried
to block his entrance, but somehow, five minutes later, Dumbledore
was sitting at the fireside, eating crumpets and playing Gobstones
with Remus.

Dumbledore explained to the Lupins that he knew what had
happened to their son. Greyback had boasted of what he had done
and Dumbledore had spies among Dark creatures. However,
Dumbledore told the Lupins that he saw no reason why Remus
should not come to school, and described the arrangements that he
had made to give the boy a safe and secure place for his
transformations. Due to the widespread prejudice around
werewolves, Dumbledore agreed that for Remus’s own sake his
condition should not be broadcast. Once a month, he would leave
for a secure and comfortable house in the village of Hogsmeade,
guarded by many spells and reached only by an underground
passage from the Hogwarts grounds, where he could transform in
peace.
Remus’s excitement was beyond anything he had known
before. It was the dream of his life to meet other children and have,
for the first time, friends and playmates.

School
Sorted into Gryffindor house, Remus Lupin was swiftly befriended
by two cheerful, confident and rebellious boys, James Potter and
Sirius Black. They were attracted by Remus’s quiet sense of humour
and a kindness that they valued, even if they did not always possess
it themselves. Remus, always the underdog’s friend, was kind to
short and rather slow Peter Pettigrew, a fellow Gryffindor, whom
James and Sirius might not have thought worthy of their attention
without Remus’s persuasion. Soon, these four became inseparable.
Remus functioned as the conscience of this group, but it was an
occasionally faulty conscience. He did not approve of their
relentless bullying of Severus Snape, but he loved James and Sirius
so much, and was so grateful for their acceptance, that he did not
always stand up to them as much as he knew he should.
Inevitably, his three best friends soon became curious as to why
Remus had to vanish once a month. Convinced by his lonely
childhood that his friends would desert him if they knew that he
was a werewolf, Remus made up ever more elaborate lies to account
for his absences. James and Sirius guessed the truth in their second
year. To Remus’s astonished gratitude, they not only remained his
friends but thought up an ingenious method of easing his monthly
isolation. They also gave him a nickname that would follow him all
through school: ‘Moony’. Remus finished his school career as a
Prefect.

The Order of the Phoenix
By the time the four friends left school, Lord Voldemort’s
ascendancy was almost complete. True resistance to him was
concentrated in the underground organisation called the Order of
the Phoenix, which all four young men joined.
The death of James Potter, along with his wife Lily, at the hands
of Lord Voldemort, was one of the most traumatic events of
Remus’s already troubled life. His friends meant even more to him
than to other people, because he had long since accepted the fact
that most people would treat him as untouchable, and that there
could be no possibility of marrying and having children. Even
worse, within twenty-four hours he had also lost his two other best
friends. Remus was in the north of the country on Order of the
Phoenix business when he heard the horrible news that one of them
had murdered the other, and was now in Azkaban, a traitor to the
Order and to Lily and James themselves.
The downfall of Voldemort, such a source of jubilation to the
rest of the wizarding community, marked the beginning of a long
stretch of loneliness and unhappiness for Remus. He had lost his
three close friends and, with the Order disbanded, his previous
comrades returned to busy lives with families. His mother was now
dead, and while Lyall, his father, was always delighted to see his son,
Remus refused to endanger his father’s peaceful existence by
returning to live with him.
Remus now lived a hand-to-mouth existence, taking jobs that
were far below his level of ability, always knowing that he would
have to leave them before his pattern of growing sick once a month
at the full moon was noticed by his workmates.

The Wolfsbane Potion
One development in the wizarding community gave Remus hope:
the discovery of the Wolfsbane Potion. While this did not prevent a
werewolf losing his human form once a month, it restricted his
transformation to that of an ordinary and sleepy wolf. It had always
been Remus’s worst fear that he would kill while out of his right
mind. However, the Wolfsbane Potion was complex and the
ingredients very expensive. Remus had no chance to sample it
without admitting what he was and so he continued his lonely,
itinerant existence.

Return to Hogwarts
Once again, Albus Dumbledore changed the course of Remus
Lupin’s life when he tracked him down to a tumbledown, semiderelict cottage in Yorkshire. Delighted to see the Headmaster,
Remus was amazed when Dumbledore offered him the post of
Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. He was only persuaded to
accept when Dumbledore explained that there would be a limitless
supply of Wolfsbane Potion, courtesy of the Potions master, Severus
Snape.
At Hogwarts, Remus revealed himself to be a gifted teacher,
with a rare flair for his own subject and a profound understanding
of his pupils. He was, as ever, particularly drawn to the underdog,
and both Neville Longbottom and Harry Potter benefited from his
wisdom and kindness.
However, Remus’s old flaw was at work. He had grave
suspicions about one of his old friends, a known fugitive, but did
not share them with anyone at Hogwarts. His desperate desire to
belong and to be liked meant that he was neither as brave nor as
honest as he ought to have been.
An unfortunate combination of circumstances arose that
resulted in Remus undergoing a true werewolf’s transformation on
the grounds of the school. Severus Snape’s resentment, never abated
by Remus’s subsequent respectful politeness, made sure that it was
widely known what the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher was.
Remus felt obliged to resign and departed Hogwarts once more.

Marriage
As Lord Voldemort once again gained ascendancy, the old
resistance regrouped and Remus found himself once more part of
the Order of the Phoenix.
This time, the group included an Auror who had been too
young to belong to the Order during its first incarnation. Clever,
brave and funny, pink-haired Nymphadora Tonks was a protégée of
Alastor ‘Mad-Eye’ Moody, the toughest and most grizzled Auror of
them all.
Remus, so often melancholy and lonely, was first amused, then
impressed, then seriously smitten by the young witch. He had never
fallen in love before. If it had happened in peacetime, Remus would
have simply taken himself off to a new place and a new job, so that
he did not have to endure the pain of watching Tonks fall in love
with a handsome, young wizard in the Auror office, which was
what he expected to happen. However, this was war; they were both
needed in the Order of the Phoenix, and nobody knew what the
next day would bring. Remus felt justified in remaining exactly
where he was, keeping his feelings to himself but secretly rejoicing
every time somebody paired him with Tonks on some overnight
mission.
It had never occurred to Remus that Tonks could return his
feelings because he had become so used to considering himself
unclean and unworthy. One night when they lay in hiding outside a
known Death Eater’s house, after a year of increasingly warm
friendship, Tonks made an idle remark about one of their fellow
Order members (‘He’s still handsome, isn’t he, even after
Azkaban?’). Before he could stop himself, Remus had replied
bitterly that he supposed she had fallen for his old friend (‘He
’)

always got the women.’). At this, Tonks became suddenly angry.
‘You’d know perfectly well who I’ve fallen for, if you weren’t too
busy feeling sorry for yourself to notice.’
Remus’s immediate response was a happiness he had never
experienced in his life, but this was extinguished almost at once by a
sense of crushing duty. He had always known that he could not
marry and run the risk of passing on his painful, shameful
condition. He therefore pretended not to understand Tonks, which
did not fool her at all. Wiser than Remus, she was sure that he loved
her, but that he was refusing to admit it out of mistaken nobility.
However, he avoided any further excursions with her, barely talked
to her, and started volunteering for the most dangerous missions.
Tonks became desperately unhappy, convinced not only that the
man she loved would never willingly spend time with her again, but
also that he might walk to his death rather than admit his feelings.
Remus and Tonks both fought Lord Voldemort and his Death
Eaters in the Department of Mysteries, a battle that resulted in the
public exposure of Voldemort’s return. The loss of the last of his
school friends during this battle did nothing to soften Remus’s
increasingly self-destructive attitude. Tonks could only watch in
despair as he volunteered to spy for the Order, leaving to live
among fellow werewolves to try to persuade them to Dumbledore’s
side. In doing this, he was exposing himself to the possible reprisals
of the werewolf who had changed his life forever, Fenrir Greyback.
Remus came face-to-face with both Greyback and Tonks at
Hogwarts barely a year later, when the Order clashed with Death
Eaters within the castle. During this battle, Remus lost yet another
person he had loved: Albus Dumbledore. Dumbledore had been
adored by every member of the Order of the Phoenix, but to
Remus, he had represented the sort of kindness, tolerance and
understanding that he had received from nobody in the world
outside his parents and his three best friends, and had been the only
man ever to offer him a position within normal wizarding society.

In the aftermath of the bloody fight, inspired by Fleur
Delacour’s protestation of enduring love for Bill Weasley, who had
been savaged by Greyback, Tonks made a brave, public declaration
of her feelings for Remus, who was forced to admit the strength of
his love for her. In spite of continuing misgivings that he was acting
selfishly, Remus married Tonks quietly in the north of Scotland,
with witnesses taken from the local wizarding tavern. He continued
to fear that the stigma attached to him would infect his wife and
wished for no fanfare around their union; he swung constantly
between elation that he was married to the woman of his dreams
and terror of what he might have brought upon them both.

Parenthood
Within a few weeks of their marriage, Remus realised that Tonks
was pregnant and every fear he had ever had surfaced. He was
convinced that he had passed on his condition to an innocent child
and that he had condemned Tonks to the same life as his mother,
forever moving around, unable to settle, having to hide her
increasingly violent child from sight. Full of remorse and selfrecrimination, Remus fled, leaving the pregnant Tonks, seeking out
Harry and offering to accompany him on whatever death-defying
adventure awaited.
To Remus’s shock and displeasure, the seventeen-year-old
Harry not only declined his offer but became angry and insulting.
He told his ex-teacher that he was acting selfishly and irresponsibly.
Remus responded with uncharacteristic violence and stormed out
of the house, taking refuge in a corner of the Leaky Cauldron,
where he sat drinking and fuming.
However, after a few hours’ reflection, Remus was forced to
accept that his ex-pupil had just taught him a valuable lesson. James
and Lily, Remus reflected, had stuck with Harry even unto their
own deaths. His own parents, Lyall and Hope, had sacrificed their
peace and security to keep the family together. Bitterly ashamed,
Remus left the inn and returned to his wife, where he begged her
forgiveness and assured her that, come what may, he would never
leave her again. For the rest of Tonks’s pregnancy, Remus eschewed
missions for the Order of the Phoenix and made it his first priority
to protect his wife and unborn child.
The Lupins’ son, Edward Remus (‘Teddy’), was named for
Remus’s recently deceased father-in-law. To both parents’ relief and
delight, he showed no sign of lycanthropy when born, but inherited
’

his mother’s ability to change his appearance at will. On the night of
Teddy’s birth, Remus briefly left Tonks and his son in the charge of
his mother-in-law, so that he could go and find Harry for the first
time since their angry confrontation. Here, he asked Harry to be
Teddy’s godfather, feeling nothing but forgiveness and gratitude
towards the person who had sent him home to the family that gave
him his greatest happiness.

Death
Both Remus and Tonks returned to Hogwarts for the final battle
against Voldemort, leaving their tiny son in the care of his
grandmother. The couple knew that if Voldemort won this battle,
their family was sure to be eliminated: both were notorious
members of the Order of the Phoenix. Tonks was a marked woman
in the eyes of her Death Eater aunt, Bellatrix Lestrange, and their
son was the very antithesis of a pure-blood, having many Muggle
relatives and a dash of werewolf.
Having survived numerous encounters with Death Eaters and
fought his way skilfully and bravely out of many tight corners,
Remus Lupin met his end at the hands of Antonin Dolohov, one of
the longest-serving, most devoted and sadistic of all Voldemort’s
Death Eaters. Remus was no longer in prime fighting condition
when he rushed to join the fight. Months of inactivity, using mostly
spells of concealment and protection, had blunted his duelling
capabilities, and when he ran up against a dueller of Dolohov’s skill,
now battle-hardened after months of killing and maiming, his
reactions were too slow.
Remus Lupin was posthumously awarded the Order of Merlin,
First Class, the first werewolf ever to be accorded this honour. The
example of his life and death did much to lift the stigma on
werewolves. He was never forgotten by anyone who knew him: a
brave, kind man who did the best he could in very difficult
circumstances and who helped many more than he ever realised.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Remus Lupin was one of my favourite characters in the entire
Potter series. I made myself cry all over again while writing this
entry, because I hated killing him.
Lupin’s condition of lycanthropy (being a werewolf) was a
metaphor for those illnesses that carry a stigma, like HIV and AIDS.
All kinds of superstitions seem to surround blood-borne
conditions, probably due to taboos surrounding blood itself. The
wizarding community is as prone to hysteria and prejudice as the
Muggle one, and the character of Lupin gave me a chance to
examine those attitudes.
Remus’s Patronus is never revealed in the Potter books, even
though it is he who teaches Harry the difficult and unusual art of
producing one. It is, in fact, a wolf – an ordinary wolf, not a
werewolf. Wolves are family-orientated and non-aggressive, but
Remus dislikes the form of his Patronus, which is a constant
reminder of his affliction. Everything wolfish disgusts him, and he
often produces a non-corporeal Patronus deliberately, especially
when others are watching.

Lycanthropy doesn’t make for an easy life. In this next piece of
writing on werewolves, we learn why it’s been so difficult for
Remus and his kind to integrate into the rest of society.

WEREWOLVES
BY J.K. ROWLING
There are werewolves worldwide and they have traditionally been
pariahs in the wizarding communities from which they often
spring; witches and wizards who are frequently involved in hunting
or studying such creatures are exposed to a higher risk of attack
than the average Muggle. In the late nineteenth century the great
English authority on werewolves, Professor Marlowe Forfang,
undertook the first comprehensive study of their habits. He found
that nearly all those he managed to study and question had been
wizards before being bitten. He also learned from the werewolves
that Muggles ‘taste’ different to wizards and that they are much
more likely to die of their wounds, whereas witches and wizards
survive to become werewolves.
The Ministry of Magic’s policies on werewolves have always
been muddled and inefficient. A Werewolf Code of Conduct was
developed in 1637, which werewolves were supposed to sign,
promising not to attack anyone but to lock themselves up securely
every month. Unsurprisingly, nobody signed the Code, as nobody
was prepared to walk into the Ministry and admit to being a
werewolf, a problem from which the later Werewolf Registry also
suffered. For years, this Werewolf Registry, on which every
werewolf was supposed to enter their name and personal details,
has remained incomplete and unreliable, because so many of the
newly-bitten sought to conceal their condition and escape the
inevitable shame and exile. Werewolves have been shunted between

the Beast and Being divisions of the Department for the Regulation
and Control of Magical Creatures for years, because nobody could
make up their minds whether a werewolf should be classified as
human or bestial. At one point, the Werewolf Registry and
Werewolf Capture Unit were both in the Beast Division, while at
the same time an office for Werewolf Support Services was
established in the Being Division. Nobody ever presented
themselves for Support Services, for the same reasons that very few
ever signed the Registry, and it was eventually closed down.
To become a werewolf, it is necessary to be bitten by a
werewolf in their wolfish form at the time of the full moon. When
the werewolf’s saliva mingles with the victim’s blood,
contamination will occur.
The many Muggle myths and legends surrounding werewolves
are, in the main, false, although some contain nuggets of truth.
Silver bullets do not kill werewolves, but a mixture of powdered
silver and dittany applied to a fresh bite will ‘seal’ the wound and
prevent the victim bleeding to death (although tragic tales are told
of victims who beg to be allowed to die rather than to live on as
werewolves).
In the second half of the twentieth century, several potions
were devised to soften the effects of lycanthropy. The most
successful was the Wolfsbane Potion.
The monthly transformation of a werewolf is extremely painful
if untreated and is usually preceded and succeeded by a few days of
pallor and ill health. While in his or her wolfish form, the werewolf
loses entirely its human sense of right or wrong. However, it is
incorrect to state (as some authorities have, notably Professor
Emerett Picardy in his book Lupine Lawlessness: Why Lycanthropes
Don’t Deserve to Live) that they suffer from a permanent loss of
moral sense. While human, the werewolf may be as good or kind as
the next person. Alternatively, they may be dangerous even while
human, as in the case of Fenrir Greyback, who attempts to bite and

maim as a man and keeps his nails sharpened into claw-like points
for the purpose.
If attacked by a werewolf that is still in human form, the victim
may develop certain mild, wolfish characteristics such as a fondness
for rare meat, but otherwise should not be troubled by long-term ill
effects. However, any bite or scratch given by a werewolf will leave
lasting scars, whether or not he or she was in a wolf’s form at the
time of the attack.
While in its animal form, the werewolf is almost
indistinguishable in appearance from the true wolf, although the
snout may be slightly shorter and the pupils smaller (in both cases
more ‘human’) and the tail tufted rather than full and bushy. The
real difference is in behaviour. Genuine wolves are not very
aggressive, and the vast number of folk tales representing them as
mindless predators are now believed by wizarding authorities to
refer to werewolves, not true wolves. A wolf is unlikely to attack a
human except under exceptional circumstances. The werewolf,
however, targets humans almost exclusively and poses very little
danger to any other creature.
Werewolves generally reproduce by attacking non-werewolves.
The stigma surrounding werewolves has been so extreme for
centuries that very few have married and had children. However,
where werewolves have married human partners, there has been no
sign of their lycanthropy being passed to their offspring.
One curious feature of the condition is that if two werewolves
meet and mate at the full moon (a highly unlikely contingency,
which is known to have occurred only twice) the result of the
mating will be wolf cubs which resemble true wolves in everything
except their abnormally high intelligence. They are not more
aggressive than normal wolves and do not single out humans for
attack. Such a litter was once set free, under conditions of extreme
secrecy, in the Forbidden Forest at Hogwarts, with the kind
permission of Albus Dumbledore. The cubs grew into beautiful and
unusually intelligent wolves and some of them live there still, which
’

has given rise to the stories about ‘werewolves’ in the Forest –
stories none of the teachers, or the gamekeeper, has done much to
dispel because keeping students out of the Forest is, in their view,
highly desirable.

From McGonagall’s grief to Lupin’s lifelong beastly affliction,
we’ve heard about heroism and hardship. Now we head into
different territory, riddled with ominous prophecies (only two of
which are genuine), omens and dangerous hobbies.
Discover more about the Hogwarts Divination teacher and
resident doomsayer Sybill Trelawney, the only professor likely to
predict your grisly demise from a cup of tea.

SYBILL TRELAWNEY
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

9th March
WAND:

Hazel and unicorn hair, nine and a half inches long, very flexible
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Ravenclaw
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

A Seer, though the gift is unpredictable and unconscious
PARENTAGE:

Muggle mother, wizard father
FAMILY:

Early marriage ended in unforeseen rupture when she refused to
adopt the surname ‘Higglebottom’, no children
HOBBIES:

Practising making doom-laden prophecies in front of the mirror,
sherry
Sybill is the great-great granddaughter of a genuine Seer, Cassandra
Trelawney. Cassandra’s gift had been much diluted over ensuing

generations, although Sybill inherited more than she knew. Halfbelieving in her own fibs about her talent (for she is at least ninety
per cent fraud), Sybill cultivated a dramatic manner and enjoys
impressing her more gullible students with predictions of doom
and disaster. She is gifted in the fortune teller’s tricks; she
accurately reads Neville’s nervousness and suggestibility in his first
class, and tells him he is about to break a cup, which he does. On
other occasions, gullible students do her work for her. Professor
Trelawney tells Lavender Brown that something she is dreading
will happen to her on the sixteenth of October; when Lavender
receives news on that day that her pet rabbit has died, she connects
it instantly with the prediction. All of Hermione’s logic and good
sense (Lavender was not dreading the death of the rabbit, which
was very young; the rabbit did not die on the sixteenth, but the
previous day) are lost: Lavender wants to believe her unhappiness
was foretold. By the law of averages, Professor Trelawney’s rapidfire predictions sometimes hit the mark, but most of the time she is
full of hot air and self-importance.
Nevertheless, Sybill does experience very rare flashes of
genuine clairvoyance, which she can never remember afterwards.
She secured her post at Hogwarts because she revealed, during her
interview with Dumbledore, that she was the unconscious
possessor of important knowledge. Dumbledore gave her sanctuary
at the school, partly to protect her, partly in the hope that more
genuine predictions would be forthcoming (he had to wait many
years for the next).
Conscious of her low status on the staff, who are almost all
more talented than she is, Sybill spends most of her time apart from
her colleagues, up in her stuffy and overcrowded tower office.
Unsurprisingly, perhaps, she has developed an over-reliance on
alcohol.

J.K. Rowling’s thoughts
Professors Trelawney and McGonagall are polar opposites; the one
something of a charlatan, manipulative and grandiose, the other
fiercely intelligent, stern and upright. I knew, however, that when
the consummate outsider and non-Hogwartian Dolores Umbridge
attempted to oust Sybill from the school, Minerva McGonagall,
who had been critical of Trelawney on many occasions, would show
the true kindness of her character and rally to her defence. There is
a pathos about Professor Trelawney, infuriating though I would
find her in real life, and I think that Minerva sensed her underlying
feeling of inadequacy.
I created detailed histories for many of the Hogwarts staff (such
as Albus Dumbledore, Minerva McGonagall and Rubeus Hagrid),
some of which were used in the books, and some of which were not.
It is in some ways fitting that I only ever had a vague idea of what
had happened to the Divination teacher before she washed up at
Hogwarts. I imagine that Sybill’s pre-Hogwarts existence consisted
of drifting through the wizarding world, trying to trade on her
ancestry to secure employment, but scorning any that did not offer
what she feels is the status due to a Seer.
I love Cornish surnames, and had never used one until the
third book in the series, so that is how Professor Trelawney got her
family name. I did not want to call her anything comical, or which
suggested chicanery, but something impressive and attractive.
‘Trelawney’ is a very old name, suggestive of Sybill’s over-reliance
on her ancestry when seeking to impress. There is a beautiful old
Cornish song featuring the name (‘The Song of the Western Men’).
Sybill’s first name is a homonym of ‘Sibyl’, which was a female
clairvoyant in ancient times. My American editor wanted me to use
’

‘Sibyl’, but I preferred my version, because while it keeps the
reference to the august clairvoyants of old, it is really no more than
a variant on the unfashionable female name ‘Sybil’. Professor
Trelawney, I felt, did not really qualify as a ‘Sibyl’.

J.K. Rowling may have only a vague idea of Sybill Trelawney’s
pre-Hogwarts life, but she has definite ideas about Seers,
particularly the practice of consulting a Naming Seer.

NAMING SEERS
BY J.K. ROWLING
A very great variety of first names are given to children by their
wizard parents, some of them being what we might think of as
Muggle names (e.g. James, Harry, Ronald), others giving a distinct
flavour of the personality or destiny of the bearer (e.g. Xenophilius,
Remus, Alecto).
Some wizards have a family tradition of names. The Black
family, for instance, like to name their offspring after stars and
constellations (which many would say suits their lofty ambition and
pride). Other wizarding families (like the Potters and the Weasleys)
simply pick their favourite names for their children, and leave it at
that.
A certain sector of magical society, however, follows the
ancient wizarding practice of consulting a Naming Seer, who
(usually for a hefty payment of gold) will predict the child’s future
and suggest an appropriate moniker.
This practice is becoming increasingly rare. Many parents
prefer to ‘let him/her find his/her own way’, and dislike (with good
reason) receiving premature hints of aptitude, limitations or, at
worst, catastrophe. Mothers and fathers have often fretted
themselves silly on the way home from the Naming Seer, wishing
that they had not heard the Seer’s predictions about their child’s
personality or future.

If Sybill Trelawney’s post as Divination teacher required her to
predict danger, employment as the Care of Magical Creatures
teacher put you right in the middle of it. Rubeus Hagrid adored
the beasts in his care, from his forbidden dragon to his arachnid
friend Aragog. The man in the job before Hagrid – Silvanus
Kettleburn – also loved magical beasts. He also, presumably,
loved having the full use of all his limbs – something he certainly
did not have by the time he retired.

SILVANUS KETTLEBURN
BY J.K. ROWLING
BIRTHDAY:

22nd November
WAND:

Chestnut and phoenix feather, eleven and a half inches, whippy
HOGWARTS HOUSE:

Hufflepuff
SPECIAL ABILITIES:

Encyclopedic knowledge of magical creatures, fearlessness
PARENTAGE:

Magical father, magical mother
FAMILY:

No wife, no children
HOBBIES:

Dangerous creatures are both his work and his hobby
Silvanus Kettleburn was the Care of Magical Creatures teacher at
Hogwarts until Harry’s third year, when he was replaced by Rubeus
Hagrid.

Kettleburn was an enthusiastic and occasionally reckless man
whose great love of the often dangerous creatures he studied and
looked after led to serious injuries to himself and, occasionally,
others. This fact led to no fewer than sixty-two periods of
probation during his time of employment at the school (a record
that still stands). Like Hagrid after him, he was prone to
underestimating the risks involved in caring for creatures such as
Occamys, Grindylows and Fire Crabs, and once famously caused
the Great Hall to catch fire after enchanting an Ashwinder to play
the Worm in a play of ‘The Fountain of Fair Fortune’.
Kettleburn was a loveable if eccentric man and his continuing
employment at the school was evidence of the great affection in
which staff and students held him. He finished his career with only
one arm and half a leg. Albus Dumbledore presented him with a full
set of enchanted wooden limbs on his retirement, a gift that had to
be replaced regularly since, because Kettleburn’s habit of visiting
dragon sanctuaries in his spare time meant that his prosthetics were
frequently set on fire.
Kettleburn retired to Hogsmeade but was unable, due to his
physical infirmities, to take part in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Determined to play his part, he clambered into his attic and threw
his entire stock of Flobberworms out of the skylight at passing
Death Eaters. While this may not have had much effect on the
outcome of the battle, it was generally felt to show the right spirit.

If there’s one thing these stories prove, it’s that heroism comes in
all shapes, sizes and varieties – whether it’s Remus Lupin giving
his life to save the wizarding world or Silvanus Kettleburn
hurling Flobberworms at Death Eaters from his attic. After all,
you don’t have to be a sword-wielding Gryffindor to be a hero;
sometimes, all it takes is having your heart in the right place.
We hope you’ve enjoyed this collection of J.K. Rowling’s writing,
presented by Pottermore.

‌

Digital Editions also published by Pottermore
Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Parts One and Two
Based on an original new story by J.K. Rowling, John Tiffany and Jack Thorne
A new play by Jack Thorne

Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous
Hobbies
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky
Poltergeists
Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide

‌

Discover even more of
J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World...
Visit www.pottermore.com, where your own Sorting Ceremony,
exclusive new writing by J.K. Rowling and all the latest news and
features from the Wizarding World awaits.
Pottermore, the digital publishing, e-commerce, entertainment and
news company from J.K. Rowling, is the global digital publisher of
Harry Potter and J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World. As the digital
heart of J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World, pottermore.com is
dedicated to unlocking the power of imagination. It offers news,
features, and articles as well as new and previously unreleased
writing by J.K. Rowling.

All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher
This edition first published by Pottermore Limited in 2016
Text © J.K. Rowling
Cover design and interior illustrations by MinaLima © Pottermore Limited
Harry Potter characters, names and related indicia are trademarks of and © Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
J.K. ROWLING’S WIZARDING WORLD TM J.K. Rowling and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
The moral right of the author has been asserted
ISBN 978-1-78110-628-0

